---
label: 'Console'
---

### What's new

- API: List operations in V2 API supports cursor pagination.
- API: Added validation for empty names for branches and 
projects. 
- API: Added LSN validation.
- UI: Added 'delete endpoint' button.
- API: Make parent_id and name optional when creating a branch.
- UI: Show branch_id and fork button in branch view.
- Control plane: Added new autoscaling limits.
- Control plane: Added region maintenance/testing flag.
- API: Return complete host for connecting in endpoint response.
- Control plane: Rename the database that is created along with the project from `main` to `neondb`.
- UI: Update free tier limits. The new limits are 1 project, 10 branches 
per project, 3 endpoints per project, 3 GB logical storage per branch.
- API: Support allow_connections flag for an endpoint.
- UI: Allow to choose an endpoint in passwordless auth.
- Control plane: Added project maintenance flag.
- API: Allow to change the branch of an endpoint.
- API: Allow creation of a branch without an endpoint.
- API: Creating a branch with V1 is now deprecated.
- API: Added response examples to the API Spec.
- API: `createProject` and `createProjectEndpoint` API endpoints now treat 
`region_id` parameter as `region.id`. It was previously incorrectly 
treated as 
`region.handle`. The code that uses these APIs may need to be updated.

### Bug fixes

- UI: Fixed rerender during endpoint polling.
- UI: Stop polling on project deletion.
- API: Return correct error on duplicate branch name.
- UI: Handle errors when polling endpoint status.
- Control plane: Handle ID collisions when creating a branch or endpoint.
- UI: don't show internal service roles.
- API: fix ordering of operations and projects.
- UI: Handle sign-in during passwordless connect.
- UI: Fix NodeJS example connection string.
