---
label: 'Console'
---

### What's new

- UI: Postgres 15 is now the default version when creating a new project.
- UI: Branches can be renamed in the single branch view screen.
- UI: Added timestamp and lsn to the branch view **TODO**: find out what it is https://github.com/neondatabase/cloud/pull/2919/commits/d05c714845e4550fa7f460755e9bbb8c778e00fe
- UI: Added branch icon to databases management UI and roles management UI.
- UI: Badges added to the single branch screen.
- Control plane: Users can create up to 3 endpoints per project and up to 10 branches in the free tier.
- Control plane: Maintenance mode for projects. When project goes into the maintenance mode, all it's endpoints are forcibly suspended and no modifications are allowed until maintenance finishes.
- Control plane: Added configurable support for Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) in API v1 and v2
- Control plane: Added descriptions for endpoint categories in API v2. Changed ApiKey tag to API KEY. 
- Control plane: With API v2 users can fetch endpoints of a branch as [was requested](https://community.neon.tech/t/api-route-feature-request-suggestion-get-v2-projects-project-id-branches-branch-id-endpoints/246).
- Control plane: With API v2 users can create endpoints without specifying instance ID.
- Control plane: With API v2 users can get user information about current user such as login, email and other parameters specified in the OpenAPI spec.
- Control plane: Listing operations with API v2 now supports cursor-based pagination (aka keyset pagination).

### Bug fixes

- UI: Fixed an issue with statuses of projects and endpoints not being updated on changes.
- Control plane: API v2 error responses now return "Content-Type" header with "application/json" value.
- Control plane: Fixed source of memory leaks during handling SQL requests.
- Control plane: Extract error messages from pageserver responses during timeline/tenant creation for better diagnostics of problems.
- Control plane: Do not perform manual rollback of the current transaction in case of context cancellation.
