---
label: 'Console'
---

### What's new

- API: The `connection_uris` property in the [Create branch](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createprojectbranch) response is no longer a required property, meaning that the field is not included in the response if the value is empty. The `connection_uris` property is now returned only in cases where a branch has only a single database and role.
- API: Added property descriptions for `Project`, `Branch`, `Endpoint`, `Database`, `Role`, and `Operation` endpoints.
- Control Plane: A compute endpoint now remains in an active state after resetting a password, creating a role, or creating a database. Previously, a compute endpoint was suspended following those actions. This behavior caused unnecessary latency when accessing the compute endpoint immediately afterward. The latency was due to the few seconds required to restart the compute endpoint.
- UI: With the introduction of pooled connections strings (see [Enable pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling#enable-connection-pooling)), enabling pooling for a compute endpoint is deprecated. With this change, the **Pooler enabled** toggle on the **Edit Compute Endpoint** dialog is now disabled and will be removed in a future release.
- UI: Changed a column heading in the table on the **Operations** page from **ID** to **Action**. The items listed in the column are operation actions rather than IDs.
- UI: Renamed the **Users** page in the Neon Console to **Roles**. This change aligns Neon's terminology with PostgreSQL, which uses the concept of "roles" to refer to database users. (See [Database roles](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/user-manag.html), in the _PostgreSQL documentation_.) All UI elements in the Neon Console were updated to reflect this change.
- Integrations: Improved text and fixed a documentation link in the [Neon Vercel integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon) UI.
