### What's new

- Added a guide for connecting Neon to [PolyScale](https://www.polyscale.ai/). The PolyScale service makes data-driven apps faster by simplifying global data distribution and caching. You can connect Neon to PolyScale in minutes, providing your database-backed applications with speedy access to your Neon data from anywhere in the world. For more information, see [Connect Neon to PolyScale](../guides/polyscale).
- Added the ability to filter the Neon release notes by category. You can now select a category such as **Console**, **Storage**, or **Plans** to view the updates from Neon that you are most interested in.
- Added a [Neon tutorial](../tutorial/neon-tutorial) that covers basic Neon concepts and features. Current tutorial topics include:

  - [Setting up a Neon project and adding data](../tutorial/project-setup).

    Describes how to sign up for Neon, create a Neon project, and add data using the Neon **SQL Editor**. You are also introduced to the Neon **Tables** feature, which allows you to explore your data directly from the Neon Console.
  
  - [Recovering lost data with Neon's branching feature](../tutorial/data-recovery).

    Demonstrates how to use Neon's branching feature to restore data to an earlier state after an accidental deletion.
  
  - [Testing queries with Neon's branching feature](../tutorial/test-queries).

    Shows how to use Neon's branching feature to safely test a potentially destructive query before running it on your production database.

  Watch for new topics as we expand the tutorial to cover more Neon concepts and features.
