---
label: 'Console'
---

### What's new

- Control Plane: Ensured that project limit checks are performed for the Neon project owner rather than the currently logged in user. Pro plan users are able to share Neon projects with Free Tier users. In these cases, project limits should be checked against Pro plan limits rather than Free Tier limits.
- Control Plane: Newly created Neon projects in a particular region are now assigned Pageservers through a random selection process, which is weighted according to Pageserver free space.
- Control Plane: Removed an unnecessary fetch of project parameters by the [Activity Monitor](../docs/reference/glossary#activity-monitor).
- UI: Implemented usability improvements for modals. The changes ensure that modals receive focus when opened and that modal buttons are disabled until there is a valid change and while a form is being submitted. New error messages were also added.
- UI: Improved the hover effect when hovering over steps in the **Neon onboarding** section on the Neon **Dashboard**.

### Bug fixes

- API: The [Update endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/updateprojectendpoint) API now permits moving an endpoint from one branch to another without specifying `autoscaling_limit_max_cu` and `autoscaling_limit_min_cu` property values, which should not be required properties when performing this action.
- Control Plane: Neon plan limits are now transmitted when using [passwordless authentication](/docs/connect/passwordless-connect), enabling users logging in via this method to create projects.
- UI: Fixed an issue that prevented Free Tier users from creating a compute endpoint for an existing branch. The **Fixed size** compute setting in the **Create Compute Endpoint** modal defaulted to 1 vCPU, which exceeds the Free Tier compute size limit.
- UI: Fixed the **Auto-suspend delay** control on the **Create Compute Endpoint** and **Edit Compute Endpoint** modals to permit values up to 604800 seconds (7 days). The limit was recently increased from 86400 seconds (1 day).
- UI: Fixed icon display issues in the **Usage** widget on the **Neon Dashboard**.
