### Default compute settings

[Neon Pro plan](/docs/introduction/pro-plan) users can now define default compute settings for a Neon project on the **Settings** page in the Neon Console. Selecting the **Compute** option on the **Settings** page opens a **Default compute settings** page where you can define default **Compute size**, **Autoscaling**, and **Auto-suspend** settings. The default settings applied when whenever you create a new compute endpoint in the Neon Console unless you explicitly overwrite them by specifying different values.

### Fixes & improvements

- API: Neon API v1 deprecation was [announced in December, 2023](/docs/release-notes/2022-12-28-console). We have now started removing code for this early version of the Neon API. [Neon API v2](https://api-docs.neon.tech/) is the currently supported version.
- UI: Added a **Billing** page to the Neon Console for Neon Enterprise and Platform Partnership custom plan users. The **Billing** page is accessible from the sidebar in the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects).
- UI: Addressed usability issues on the **Custom** tab of the **Pro Plan Cost Estimator**, accessible from the Free Tier **Billing** page in the Neon Console. Percentage values were not restored when switching between **Enter your own values** and **Use a percentage**. Additionally, minimum, maximum, and increment values were adjusted for **Compute** and **Project storage** metrics.
- UI: The billing period drop-down menu at the top right corner of the **Billing** page for Neon Pro plan users now shows the current billing period as the default instead of the oldest billing period.
