---
title: Operations
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: false
---

An operation is an action performed by the Neon Control Plane on a Neon object or resource. Operations are typically initiated by user actions, such as creating a branch or deleting a database. Other operations may be initiated by the Neon Control Plane, such as suspending an [compute endpoint](/docs/reference/glossary#compute-endpoint) after a period of inactivity or checking its availability. You can monitor operations to keep an eye on the overall health of your Neon project or to check the status of specific operations.

Operations include:

- `apply_config`: Applies a new configuration to a Neon object or resource. For example, creating, deleting, or updating  PostgreSQL roles and databases initiates this operation.
- `check_availability`: Checks the availability of a [compute endpoint](/docs/reference/glossary#compute-endpoint). This operation, performed by the [availability checker](/docs/reference/glossary#availability-checker), is a periodic load generated by the Control Plane that makes sure a compute endpoint is able to start and read and write data.
- `create_compute`: Creates a compute endpoint. Creating a compute endpoint, a branch with an endpoint, or a Neon project initiates this operation. A Neon project is created with a read-write endpoint by default. For related information, see [Manage endpoints](/docs/manage/endpoints).
- `create_timeline`: Creates a [branch](/docs/reference/glossary#branch). This operation occurs when creating a child branch or when creating a new project, which includes a `main` branch. For related information, see [Manage branches]/docs/manage/branches).
- `delete_tenant`: Deletes the stored data when a Neon project is deleted.
- `delete_timeline`: Deletes a branch. The terms _timeline_ and _branch_ are synonymous. The term _timeline_ is used internally in Neon.
- `start_compute`: Starts a compute endpoint when there is an event or action that requires compute resources. For example, connecting to a suspended compute endpoint initiates this operation.
- `suspend_compute`: Suspends a compute endpoint after a period of inactivity. For information about how Neon manages compute resources, see [Compute lifecycle](/docs/introduction/compute-lifecycle/).

## View operations

The **Operations** widget on the Neon **Dashboard** displays operations. You can also view operations on the **Operations** page.

Operation details include:

- **Action/ID**: The action performed by the operation.
- **Branch**: The branch on which the operation was performed.
- **Status**: The status of the operation.
- **Duration**: The duration of the operation.
- **Date**: The date and time the operation occurred.

## View operations with the Neon API

You can also view operations using the Neon API, which provides operations data in an unmodified format. For example:

```json
{
  "operation": {
    "id": "97c7a650-e4ff-43d7-8c58-4c67f5050167",
    "project_id": "autumn-disk-484331",
    "branch_id": "br-wispy-dew-591433",
    "endpoint_id": "ep-orange-art-714542",
    "action": "check_availability",
    "status": "finished",
    "failures_count": 0,
    "created_at": "2022-12-09T08:47:52Z",
    "updated_at": "2022-12-09T08:47:56Z"
  }
}
```

For information about using the Neon API, see [Neon API](/docs/reference/api-reference/).

## Need help?

Send a request to [support@neon.tech](mailto:support@neon.tech), or join the [Neon community forum](https://community.neon.tech/).
