content/docs/introduction/manage-billing.md, before:

---
title: Manage billing
subtitle: Invoices, payment methods, changing your plan, and other actions around
  managing your bill
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-09-02T13:42:56.658Z'
---

A Neon account can view and manage billing from the **Billing** page in the Neon Console. On the **Billing** page, you can:

- View the details of your current plan
- View your **Billing summary** if you are on a paid plan
- Monitor your current usage
- Update your billing information, including your payment method and billing email
- Change your plan
- View and download invoices

## View the billing page

To access your **Billing** page:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.

## Update your payment method

To update your payment method:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Billing info**.
1. Locate **Payment method** on the page and click **Edit**.

If you are unable to update your payment method, please [open a support ticket](/docs/introduction/support).

### Missed payments

If an auto-debit payment transaction fails, Neon sends a request to update your payment method. Late fees and payment policies are described in [Neon’s Terms of Service](https://neon.tech/terms-of-service).

## Update your billing email

To update your billing email:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Billing info**.
1. Locate **Billing email** on the page and click **Edit**.

If you are unable to update your billing email, please [open a support ticket](/docs/introduction/support).

## Invoices

A Neon invoice includes the amount due for the billing period.

### Download invoices

To download an invoice:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Invoices**.
1. Click the download icon for the invoice you want to download.

## Change your plan

To upgrade or downgrade your plan:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Change plan**.

Changing your plan to one with lower usage allowances may affect the performance of your applications. To compare plan allowances, see [Neon plans](/docs/introduction/plans#neon-plans).

If you are downgrading your plan, you will be required to remove any projects, branches, or data that exceed your new plan allowances.

To downgrade from an [Enterprise](/docs/introduction/plans#enterprise) plan, please contact [Sales](https://neon.tech/contact-sales). Cancellation of an Enterprise plan is handled according to the Master Subscription Agreement (MSA) outlined in the customer agreement.

## Delete your account

To delete your Neon account, please initiate an account deletion request through the Neon support team. If you're a Launch, Scale, or Business plan subscriber, you can generate a support ticket directly from the Neon Console. Navigate to the **Support** link located in the Neon Console sidebar to open the **Create support ticket** modal. Here, you can formally request the deletion of your account. For direct access to this modal, [click here](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=support). If you are a Free Plan user and do not have access to the **Create support ticket** modal in the Neon Console, please direct your request to `support@neon.tech`.

<Admonition type="important">
Before Neon can proceed with deleting your account, it is necessary to ensure all active projects have been deleted. To learn how to delete your projects, please refer to [Delete a project](/docs/manage/projects#delete-a-project) for instructions.
</Admonition>

Commit message:

docs: how to stop monthly charges

content/docs/introduction/manage-billing.md, after:

---
title: Manage billing
subtitle: Invoices, payment methods, changing your plan, and other actions around
  managing your bill
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-09-02T13:42:56.658Z'
---

A Neon account can view and manage billing from the **Billing** page in the Neon Console. On the **Billing** page, you can:

- View the details of your current plan
- View your **Billing summary** if you are on a paid plan
- Monitor your current usage
- Update your billing information, including your payment method and billing email
- Change your plan
- View and download invoices

## View the billing page

To access your **Billing** page:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.

## Update your payment method

To update your payment method:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Billing info**.
1. Locate **Payment method** on the page and click **Edit**.

If you are unable to update your payment method, please [open a support ticket](/docs/introduction/support).

### Missed payments

If an auto-debit payment transaction fails, Neon sends a request to update your payment method. Late fees and payment policies are described in [Neon’s Terms of Service](https://neon.tech/terms-of-service).

## Update your billing email

To update your billing email:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Billing info**.
1. Locate **Billing email** on the page and click **Edit**.

If you are unable to update your billing email, please [open a support ticket](/docs/introduction/support).

## Invoices

A Neon invoice includes the amount due for the billing period.

### Download invoices

To download an invoice:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Invoices**.
1. Click the download icon for the invoice you want to download.

## Change your plan

To upgrade or downgrade your plan:

1. Navigate to the Neon Console.
1. Select your Profile.
1. Select **Billing** from the menu.
1. Select **Change plan**.

Changing your plan to one with lower usage allowances may affect the performance of your applications. To compare plan allowances, see [Neon plans](/docs/introduction/plans#neon-plans).

If you are downgrading your plan, you will be required to remove any projects, branches, or data that exceed your new plan allowances.

To downgrade from an [Enterprise](/docs/introduction/plans#enterprise) plan, please contact [Sales](https://neon.tech/contact-sales). Cancellation of an Enterprise plan is handled according to the Master Subscription Agreement (MSA) outlined in the customer agreement.

## How to prevent further monthly charges to your account

If you are on any of Neon's paid plans, you need to downgrade to the Free plan to avoid further monthly charges. You can do so from the [Billing](https://console.neon.tech/app/billing#change_plan) page in the Neon Console. Simply removing all Neon projects from your account will not stop the monthly fee associated with your plan. You will continue to be invoiced until you downgrade to Free. For example, if you are on the [Launch](/docs/introduction/plans#launch) plan, which has a base monthly fee of $19 per month, you will continue to be charged $19 a month until you downgrade to the Free plan.

## Delete your account

To delete your Neon account, please initiate an account deletion request through the Neon support team. If you're a Launch, Scale, or Business plan subscriber, you can generate a support ticket directly from the Neon Console. Navigate to the **Support** link located in the Neon Console sidebar to open the **Create support ticket** modal. Here, you can formally request the deletion of your account. For direct access to this modal, [click here](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=support). If you are a Free Plan user and do not have access to the **Create support ticket** modal in the Neon Console, please direct your request to `support@neon.tech`.

<Admonition type="important">
Before Neon can proceed with deleting your account, it is necessary to ensure all active projects have been deleted. To learn how to delete your projects, please refer to [Delete a project](/docs/manage/projects#delete-a-project) for instructions.
</Admonition>
