content/docs/introduction/regions.md, before:

---
title: Regions
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: false
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/conceptual-guides/regions
updatedOn: '2024-09-03T14:54:52.675Z'
---

Neon supports project deployment in several regions. We recommended that you select the region closest to your application server to reduce latency between your Neon database and your application.

## AWS regions

- US East (N. Virginia) &mdash; `aws-us-east-1`
- US East (Ohio) &mdash; `aws-us-east-2`
- US West (Oregon) &mdash; `aws-us-west-2`
- Europe (Frankfurt) &mdash; `aws-eu-central-1`
- Asia Pacific (Singapore) &mdash; `aws-ap-southeast-1`
- Asia Pacific (Sydney) &mdash; `aws-ap-southeast-2`

## Azure regions

- East US 2 region (Virginia) &mdash; `azure-eastus2` (**Beta**)

<Admonition type="note" title="About the Neon on Azure Beta">
The Neon on Azure Beta is currently limited to the Azure East US 2 region and may not be suitable for business-critical projects. As a Beta release, occasional updates may require downtime.

During this Beta period:

- Anyone can create a Neon project in the Azure region.
- The [Free Plan usage allowances](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) are the same as for Free Plan accounts created on AWS.
- For Launch, Scale, and Business plan users, compute and storage usage for Azure-hosted projects will not be counted toward your [Neon plan allowances](/docs/introduction/plans), though project allowances still apply, and [extra project units](/docs/introduction/extra-usage) will be billed accordingly.
- [Support](/docs/introduction/support) is available for Neon projects on Azure, but Business plan SLAs are not yet offered.

Users with Neon projects in the Azure region will be notified before the Beta period ends, at which point usage in these projects will begin to count toward your [Neon plan allowances](/docs/introduction/plans).

To stay informed about the latest developments for Neon on Azure, please [sign up here](tbd). Neon will also be available soon through the Azure Marketplace. If you're interested in joining the public preview, sign up for the [Neon on Azure Public Preview Waitlist](https://neon.tech/neon-on-azure).
</Admonition>

## Request a region

<RegionRequest />

## Select a region for your Neon project

You can select the region for your Neon project during project creation. See [Create a project](/docs/manage/projects#create-a-project).

All branches and databases created in a Neon project are created in the region selected for the project.

![Select region image](/docs/introduction/project_creation_regions.png)

<Admonition type="note">
After you select a region for a Neon project, it cannot be changed for that project.
</Admonition>

## NAT Gateway IP addresses

A NAT gateway has a public IP address that external systems see when private resources initiate outbound connections. Neon uses 3 to 6 IP addresses per region for this outbound communication, corresponding to each availability zone in the region. To ensure proper connectivity for setups such as replicating data to Neon, you should allow access to all the NAT gateway IP addresses associated with your Neon project's region.

If you are unsure of your project's region, you can find this information in the **Project settings** widget on the **Project Dashboard**.

### AWS NAT Gateway IP Addresses

| Region                                        | NAT Gateway IP Addresses                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| US East (N. Virginia) — aws-us-east-1         | 23.23.0.232, 3.222.32.110, 35.168.244.148, 54.160.39.37, 54.205.208.153, 54.88.155.118 |
| US East (Ohio) — aws-us-east-2                | 18.217.181.229, 3.129.145.179, 3.139.195.115                                           |
| US West (Oregon) — aws-us-west-2              | 44.235.241.217, 52.32.22.241, 52.37.48.254, 54.213.57.47                               |
| Europe (Frankfurt) — aws-eu-central-1         | 18.158.63.175, 3.125.234.79, 3.125.57.42                                               |
| Asia Pacific (Singapore) — aws-ap-southeast-1 | 54.254.50.26, 54.254.92.70, 54.255.161.23                                              |
| Asia Pacific (Sydney) — aws-ap-southeast-2    | 13.237.134.148, 13.55.152.144, 54.153.185.87                                           |

### Azure NAT Gateway IP Addresses

| Region                               | NAT Gateway IP Addresses                                                               |
| :----------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| East US 2 (Virginia) — azure-eastus2 | 23.23.0.232, 3.222.32.110, 35.168.244.148, 54.160.39.37, 54.205.208.153, 54.88.155.118 |

## Move project data to a new region

Moving a project to a differ region requires moving your data using one of the following methods:

### Dump and restore

Using the dump and restore method involves the following steps:

1. Create a new project in the desired region. For project creation instructions, see [Create a project](/docs/manage/projects#create-a-project).
1. Move your data from the old project to the new project. For instructions, see [Import data from Postgres](/docs/import/migrate-from-postgres).

Moving data to a new Neon project using this method may take some time depending on the size of your data. To prevent the loss of data during the import operation, consider disabling writes from your applications before initiating the import operation. You can re-enable writes when the import is completed. Neon does not currently support disabling database writes. Writes must be disabled at the application level.

<Admonition type="note">
Neon Free Plan users are limited to a single project. In this case, you can export your data using `pg_dump`, remove your existing project, create a new project in the desired region, and import your data into the new project.
</Admonition>

### Logical replication

As an alternative to the dump and restore method described above, you can use **logical replication** to replicate data from one Neon project to another for a near-zero downtime data migration. For more information, see [Replicate data from one Neon project to another](/docs/guides/logical-replication-neon-to-neon).

<NeedHelp/>

Commit message:

docs: add feedback info, add azure region to CLI docs

content/docs/introduction/regions.md, after:

---
title: Regions
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: false
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/conceptual-guides/regions
updatedOn: '2024-09-03T14:54:52.675Z'
---

Neon supports project deployment in several regions. We recommended that you select the region closest to your application server to reduce latency between your Neon database and your application.

## AWS regions

- US East (N. Virginia) &mdash; `aws-us-east-1`
- US East (Ohio) &mdash; `aws-us-east-2`
- US West (Oregon) &mdash; `aws-us-west-2`
- Europe (Frankfurt) &mdash; `aws-eu-central-1`
- Asia Pacific (Singapore) &mdash; `aws-ap-southeast-1`
- Asia Pacific (Sydney) &mdash; `aws-ap-southeast-2`

## Azure regions

- East US 2 region (Virginia) &mdash; `azure-eastus2` (**Beta**)

<Admonition type="note" title="About the Neon on Azure Beta">
The Neon on Azure Beta is currently limited to the Azure East US 2 region and may not be suitable for business-critical projects. As a Beta release, occasional updates may require downtime.

During this Beta period:

- Anyone can create a Neon project in the Azure region.
- The [Free Plan usage allowances](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) are the same as for Free Plan accounts created on AWS.
- For Launch, Scale, and Business plan users, compute and storage usage for Azure-hosted projects will not be counted toward your [Neon plan allowances](/docs/introduction/plans), though project allowances still apply, and [extra project units](/docs/introduction/extra-usage) will be billed accordingly.
- [Support](/docs/introduction/support) is available for Neon projects on Azure, but Business plan SLAs are not yet offered.

Users with Neon projects in the Azure region will be notified before the Beta period ends, at which point usage in these projects will begin to count toward your [Neon plan allowances](/docs/introduction/plans).

To stay informed about the latest developments for Neon on Azure, please [sign up for our newsletter](tbd). Neon will also be available soon through the Azure Marketplace. If you're interested in joining the public preview, sign up for the [Neon on Azure Public Preview Waitlist](https://neon.tech/neon-on-azure).

If you have any feedback about your experience with Neon on Azure, we'd love to hear it. Let us know via the [Feedback](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=feedback) form in the Neon Console or our [feedback channel](https://discord.com/channels/1176467419317940276/1176788564890112042) on Discord.
</Admonition>

## Request a region

<RegionRequest />

## Select a region for your Neon project

You can select the region for your Neon project during project creation. See [Create a project](/docs/manage/projects#create-a-project).

All branches and databases created in a Neon project are created in the region selected for the project.

![Select region image](/docs/introduction/project_creation_regions.png)

<Admonition type="note">
After you select a region for a Neon project, it cannot be changed for that project.
</Admonition>

## NAT Gateway IP addresses

A NAT gateway has a public IP address that external systems see when private resources initiate outbound connections. Neon uses 3 to 6 IP addresses per region for this outbound communication, corresponding to each availability zone in the region. To ensure proper connectivity for setups such as replicating data to Neon, you should allow access to all the NAT gateway IP addresses associated with your Neon project's region.

If you are unsure of your project's region, you can find this information in the **Project settings** widget on the **Project Dashboard**.

### AWS NAT Gateway IP Addresses

| Region                                        | NAT Gateway IP Addresses                                                               |
| :-------------------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| US East (N. Virginia) — aws-us-east-1         | 23.23.0.232, 3.222.32.110, 35.168.244.148, 54.160.39.37, 54.205.208.153, 54.88.155.118 |
| US East (Ohio) — aws-us-east-2                | 18.217.181.229, 3.129.145.179, 3.139.195.115                                           |
| US West (Oregon) — aws-us-west-2              | 44.235.241.217, 52.32.22.241, 52.37.48.254, 54.213.57.47                               |
| Europe (Frankfurt) — aws-eu-central-1         | 18.158.63.175, 3.125.234.79, 3.125.57.42                                               |
| Asia Pacific (Singapore) — aws-ap-southeast-1 | 54.254.50.26, 54.254.92.70, 54.255.161.23                                              |
| Asia Pacific (Sydney) — aws-ap-southeast-2    | 13.237.134.148, 13.55.152.144, 54.153.185.87                                           |

### Azure NAT Gateway IP Addresses

| Region                               | NAT Gateway IP Addresses                                                               |
| :----------------------------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| East US 2 (Virginia) — azure-eastus2 | 23.23.0.232, 3.222.32.110, 35.168.244.148, 54.160.39.37, 54.205.208.153, 54.88.155.118 |

## Move project data to a new region

Moving a project to a differ region requires moving your data using one of the following methods:

### Dump and restore

Using the dump and restore method involves the following steps:

1. Create a new project in the desired region. For project creation instructions, see [Create a project](/docs/manage/projects#create-a-project).
1. Move your data from the old project to the new project. For instructions, see [Import data from Postgres](/docs/import/migrate-from-postgres).

Moving data to a new Neon project using this method may take some time depending on the size of your data. To prevent the loss of data during the import operation, consider disabling writes from your applications before initiating the import operation. You can re-enable writes when the import is completed. Neon does not currently support disabling database writes. Writes must be disabled at the application level.

<Admonition type="note">
Neon Free Plan users are limited to a single project. In this case, you can export your data using `pg_dump`, remove your existing project, create a new project in the desired region, and import your data into the new project.
</Admonition>

### Logical replication

As an alternative to the dump and restore method described above, you can use **logical replication** to replicate data from one Neon project to another for a near-zero downtime data migration. For more information, see [Replicate data from one Neon project to another](/docs/guides/logical-replication-neon-to-neon).

<NeedHelp/>
