content/docs/introduction/support.md, before:

---
title: Support
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.073Z'
---

This page outlines Neon's support plans, available channels, and policies. To learn how to access support, please refer to the [Support channels](#support-channels) section. Identify the channels available to you based on your plan and follow the links to navigate to the relevant information.

## Support plans

Neon's support plans are mapped to [Neon Pricing Plans](/docs/introduction/plans), as outlined in the following table.

| Neon Pricing Plan                                      | Support Plan |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | :----------- |
| [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan)        | Community    |
| [Launch Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#launch)         | Standard     |
| [Scale Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#scale)           | Standard     |
| [Business Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#business)     | Priority     |
| [Enterprise Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#enterprise) | Enterprise   |

<Admonition type="note">
Upgrading your support plan requires [upgrading your pricing plan](/docs/introduction/manage-billing#change-your-plan).
</Admonition>

## Support channels

The support channels you can access differ according to your [Support Plan](#support-plans).

| Support channels                                                      | Community | Standard | Priority | Enterprise |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :------: | :--------: |
| [Neon Discord Server](#neon-discord-server) (not an official channel) |  &check;  | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Neon AI Chat](#neon-ai-chat) (not an official channel)               |  &check;  | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Support tickets](#support-tickets)                                   |     -     | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Prioritized support tickets](#prioritized-support-tickets)           |     -     |    -     | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Video chat](#video-chat)                                             |     -     |    -     |    \*    |     \*     |
| [SLAs](#slas)                                                         |     -     |    -     | &check;  |  &check;   |

<div style={{margin: '-30px 0 30px 0'}}>
<small><sup>*</sup>Video chats may be scheduled on a case-by-case basis. See [Video chat](#video-chat).</small>
</div>

### Neon Discord Server

All Neon users have access to the [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp), where you can ask questions or see what others are doing with Neon. You will find Neon users and members of the Neon team actively engaged.

<Admonition type="important">
The [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp) is not an official Neon Support channel.
</Admonition>

### Neon AI Chat

Neon AI chat is available to all Neon users. You can access Neon AI chat from the following locations:

- The **Search** bar at the top of the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects)
- The **Search** bar in the [Neon Documentation](/docs/introduction)
- The **#gpt-help** channel on the [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp)

![Ask Neon AI](/docs/introduction/ask_neon_ai.png)

Neon AI Chat sources include the Neon Discord Server, the Neon Documentation, the Neon Blog, the Neon API Reference, PostgreSQL documentation, and GitHub repositories for Neon, the Neon CLI, and the Neon Serverless driver. Neon AI chat sources are updated daily to ensure that responses reflect the latest information.

<Admonition type="important">
Neon AI chat is not an official Neon Support channel.
</Admonition>

### Support tickets

Paying users can contact support by opening a support ticket in the Neon Console. Select **Support** from the **?** menu at the top of the Neon Console. This will open the **Create Support Ticket** modal, where you can describe your issue.

To access the modal directly, click here: [Open Support Ticket](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=support).

<Admonition type="note">
If you are a paying user and cannot access the support ticket form in the Neon Console for some reason, you can contact Neon support at the following email address: `support@neon.tech`.
</Admonition>

![Support ticket modal](/docs/introduction/neon_support_modal.png)

You can expect an initial response time of 3 business days, Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays. For custom support solutions, please contact [Sales](https://neon.tech/contact-sales).

### Prioritized support tickets

Support tickets opened by Priority and Enterprise support plan customers are given top priority by the Neon Support team. Refer to [Support tickets](#support-tickets) for how to open a support ticket.

### Video chat

Video chat is available to Priority and Enterprise support plan customers and may be scheduled on a case-by-case basis through the [support ticket](#support-tickets) process.

### SLAs

Support Level Agreements (SLAs) are available to Business and Enterprise support plan customers. For Business plan, see [Business Plan SLA](https://neon.tech/neon-business-sla). If you are interested in exploring an Enterprise-level SLA, [get in touch with our sales team](/contact-sales).

## General support policy

Neon provides Support for eligible plans under the terms of this Support Policy as long as the Customer maintains a current subscription to one of the following Neon plans: Launch, Scale, Business, or Enterprise. For more information, see [plans](/docs/introduction/plans). “Support” means the services described in this Support Policy and does not include one-time services or other services not specified in this Support Policy, such as training, consulting, or custom development. Support for [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) users is provided through [Discord](https://neon.tech/discord). See Neon [plans](/docs/introduction/plans) and [pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) for more information about our plans.

Unless described otherwise, defined terms mentioned in this policy shall have the same meaning as defined in our [terms of service](https://neon.tech/terms-of-service).

We provide updates regarding any disruption in our Services on our [status page](https://neonstatus.com/). Please check this source first before seeking support.

### Issue resolution

Neon will make commercially reasonable efforts to resolve any Issues submitted by customers on eligible plans. Such efforts may (at our discretion) include helping with diagnosis, suggesting workarounds, or changing the Product in a new release. An “Issue” is a material and verifiable failure of the Product to conform to its Documentation. Support will not be provided for the following: (1) use of the Products in a manner inconsistent with the applicable Documentation, (2) modifications to the Products not provided by or approved in writing by Neon, (3) use of the Products with third-party software not provided or approved by Neon. The Customer shall not submit Issues arising from any products other than the Products or otherwise use Support for unsupported products; this includes issues caused by third-party integrations.

### Billing issues

If you, the Customer, believe that your invoice or billing receipt is incorrect, we strongly encourage you to contact our Support team rather than filing a dispute with your card provider. Should a payment dispute be filed before getting in touch with us, we are limited in terms of the action we can take to resolve the matter. Once a dispute has been made with the card provider, the account associated with it and all deployments under it may be suspended until it has been resolved.

### Response times

Neon aims to respond to all **paid subscription** requests in a timely manner and as soon as practically possible. Customers are prioritized based on their plan and [Severity](#severity-levels) of their issue. We only commit to responding to Customers with an Enterprise subscription using the target response time guidelines below.

#### Enterprise target response times

The table below outlines Neon’s guidelines for the various support tiers of our Enterprise support plan.

These times relate to the time it takes Neon to respond to the Customer’s initial request. This guideline only applies when submitting a support ticket through the Neon Console.

|    Severity Level     | Enterprise Standard                       | Enterprise Gold                          |
| :-------------------: | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| Severity 1 (Critical) | \< 2 hours (during Normal Business Hours) | \< 1 hour                                |
|   Severity 2 (High)   | \< 2 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 1 day                                 |
|  Severity 3 (Normal)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours) |
|   Severity 4 (Low)    | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours) |

### Severity levels

When the Customer submits an issue (with or without specifying a starting severity), Neon will reasonably assess its severity according to the appropriate severity levels defined below. Neon reserves the right to set, upgrade and downgrade severities of support tickets, on a case-by-case basis, considering any available mitigations, workarounds, and timely cooperation from Customers. Neon will explain the reasoning to the Customer and will resolve any disagreement regarding the severity as soon as is reasonably practicable. **Critical and High-priority levels should not be used for low-impact issues or general questions\!**

A detailed explanation of each severity level, including several examples, is provided below.

#### Severity 1 (Critical)

- Catastrophic problems in the Customer’s production system leading to loss of service or impact on the Customer’s business
- Unavailability of the service
- Security breaches that compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the database or its data.

<Admonition type="note">
If Critical is selected during the case creation, the customer will be asked to provide in-depth details on the business impact the issue has caused.
</Admonition>

Examples:

1. A complete outage of the service provided by Neon
2. Security breaches
3. Error impacting the project as a whole (all endpoints/db affected)
4. Error impacting multiple projects
5. EP/Branch/DB unreachable
6. Data corruption/Data loss

#### Severity 2 (High)

Means a high-impact problem in a customer’s production systems. Essential operations are seriously disrupted, but a workaround exists that allows for continued essential operations.

- Non-essential modifications to configuration, like adjusting database parameters or table schema
- Minor performance concerns that have minimal impact on database usability
- Minor issues related to application integrations, such as minor API connectivity problems
- Small-scale challenges with data import/export, data transformation, or data loading processes

Examples:

1. Partial outage of the service provided by Neon: service usable, but key feature unusable, e.g.:
   - Cannot create a new branch
   - Cannot execute a branch [restore](/docs/guides/branch-restore)
   - Cannot peform PITR
   - Etc.
2. Any use case that would require a high load of manual work on the customer side to mitigate an issue on our end
3. Any use case which massively and negatively affects the customer's business

#### Severity 3 (Normal)

A medium-impact problem on a production or non-production system that involves:

- Partial or limited loss of non-critical functionality
- A usage problem that involves no loss in functionality

Customers can continue essential operations. Normal problems also include issues with non-production systems, such as test and development systems.

Examples:

1. RCA for past outages or incidents (no disruption of the service at the moment)
2. Sporadic connection failure/timeouts/retries
3. Cannot connect with random third-party framework or tool (but can connect generally speaking)
4. Any use case which has a minor impact on the customer's business
5. Poor performing queries/ingestion
6. Billing issues

#### Severity 4 (Low)

- A general usage question; here is no impact on the product's quality, performance, or functionality in a production or non-production system
- Any request for information, enhancement, or documentation clarification regarding the platform

Examples:

1. Feature requests/feature enablement
2. General questions (“active time,” “how to backup a DB,” “how to ingest data”) and feedback
3. Any use case that has no impact on the customer's business at all

### Etiquette

Regardless of the method or location through which Neon provides Support, communication should be professional and respectful. Any communication that is deemed objectionable by Neon staff is not tolerated. This includes but is not limited to any communication that is abusive or contains profane language. Neon reserves the right to terminate Support Services in the event of any such objectionable communication.

### Customer responsibilities

To ensure efficient resolution of issues, customers are expected to (1) provide detailed information about the issue, (2) cooperate with the Support team during troubleshooting, and (3) utilize available self-service resources for basic inquiries.

### Changes to the support policy

We reserve the right to modify, amend, or update this Support Policy, including the types of support offered, support hours, response times, and support plans, at any time and at our sole discretion. Any changes to the Support Policy will be effective immediately upon posting a revised version of this Support Policy. Continued use of our services after such modifications will constitute acknowledgment and acceptance of the changes.

Commit message:

docs: add copilot extension docs

content/docs/introduction/support.md, after:

---
title: Support
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.073Z'
---

This page outlines Neon's support plans, available channels, and policies. To learn how to access support, please refer to the [Support channels](#support-channels) section. Identify the channels available to you based on your plan and follow the links to navigate to the relevant information.

## Support plans

Neon's support plans are mapped to [Neon Pricing Plans](/docs/introduction/plans), as outlined in the following table.

| Neon Pricing Plan                                      | Support Plan |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | :----------- |
| [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan)        | Community    |
| [Launch Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#launch)         | Standard     |
| [Scale Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#scale)           | Standard     |
| [Business Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#business)     | Priority     |
| [Enterprise Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#enterprise) | Enterprise   |

<Admonition type="note">
Upgrading your support plan requires [upgrading your pricing plan](/docs/introduction/manage-billing#change-your-plan).
</Admonition>

## Support channels

The support channels you can access differ according to your [Support Plan](#support-plans).

| Support channels                                                      | Community | Standard | Priority | Enterprise |
| :-------------------------------------------------------------------- | :-------: | :------: | :------: | :--------: |
| [Neon Discord Server](#neon-discord-server) (not an official channel) |  &check;  | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Neon AI Chat](#neon-ai-chat) (not an official channel)               |  &check;  | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Neon GitHub Copilot Extension](#neon-github-copilot-extension) (not an official channel)    |  &check;  | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Support tickets](#support-tickets)                                   |     -     | &check;  | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Prioritized support tickets](#prioritized-support-tickets)           |     -     |    -     | &check;  |  &check;   |
| [Video chat](#video-chat)                                             |     -     |    -     |    \*    |     \*     |
| [SLAs](#slas)                                                         |     -     |    -     | &check;  |  &check;   |

<div style={{margin: '-30px 0 30px 0'}}>
<small><sup>*</sup>Video chats may be scheduled on a case-by-case basis. See [Video chat](#video-chat).</small>
</div>

### Neon Discord Server

All Neon users have access to the [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp), where you can ask questions or see what others are doing with Neon. You will find Neon users and members of the Neon team actively engaged.

<Admonition type="important">
The [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp) is not an official Neon Support channel.
</Admonition>

### Neon AI Chat

Neon AI chat is available to all Neon users. You can access Neon AI chat from the following locations:

- The **Search** bar at the top of the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects)
- The **Search** bar in the [Neon Documentation](/docs/introduction)
- The **#gpt-help** channel on the [Neon Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp)

![Ask Neon AI](/docs/introduction/ask_neon_ai.png)

Neon AI Chat sources include the Neon Discord Server, the Neon Documentation, the Neon Blog, the Neon API Reference, PostgreSQL documentation, and GitHub repositories for Neon, the Neon CLI, and the Neon Serverless driver. Neon AI chat sources are updated daily to ensure that responses reflect the latest information.

<Admonition type="important">
Neon AI chat is not an official Neon Support channel.
</Admonition>

### Neon GitHub Copilot Extension

The [Neon Database Copilot Extension](https://github.com/marketplace/neon-database) is available in the GitHub Marketplace. This extension lets you chat with the latest Neon documentation within the context of your repository.

![GitHub Copilot Extension](/docs/relnotes/github_copilot_extension.png)

Get answers to common questions like:

- _How to create a project?_
- _How can I get started with the Neon API?_
- _How do I integrate the Neon API into my GitHub repository._

**Setup instructions:**

1. Install the extension
2. Type `@neondatabase` in the chat to start interacting (participant setup may take a few minutes)

Coming soon, you'll be able to directly interact with Neon endpoints by simply asking questions. Additionally, new tools will enable you to create Neon databases directly from the chat interface.

### Support tickets

Paying users can contact support by opening a support ticket in the Neon Console. Select **Support** from the **?** menu at the top of the Neon Console. This will open the **Create Support Ticket** modal, where you can describe your issue.

To access the modal directly, click here: [Open Support Ticket](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=support).

<Admonition type="note">
If you are a paying user and cannot access the support ticket form in the Neon Console for some reason, you can contact Neon support at the following email address: `support@neon.tech`.
</Admonition>

![Support ticket modal](/docs/introduction/neon_support_modal.png)

You can expect an initial response time of 3 business days, Monday through Friday, excluding public holidays. For custom support solutions, please contact [Sales](https://neon.tech/contact-sales).

### Prioritized support tickets

Support tickets opened by Priority and Enterprise support plan customers are given top priority by the Neon Support team. Refer to [Support tickets](#support-tickets) for how to open a support ticket.

### Video chat

Video chat is available to Priority and Enterprise support plan customers and may be scheduled on a case-by-case basis through the [support ticket](#support-tickets) process.

### SLAs

Support Level Agreements (SLAs) are available to Business and Enterprise support plan customers. For Business plan, see [Business Plan SLA](https://neon.tech/neon-business-sla). If you are interested in exploring an Enterprise-level SLA, [get in touch with our sales team](/contact-sales).

## General support policy

Neon provides Support for eligible plans under the terms of this Support Policy as long as the Customer maintains a current subscription to one of the following Neon plans: Launch, Scale, Business, or Enterprise. For more information, see [plans](/docs/introduction/plans). “Support” means the services described in this Support Policy and does not include one-time services or other services not specified in this Support Policy, such as training, consulting, or custom development. Support for [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) users is provided through [Discord](https://neon.tech/discord). See Neon [plans](/docs/introduction/plans) and [pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) for more information about our plans.

Unless described otherwise, defined terms mentioned in this policy shall have the same meaning as defined in our [terms of service](https://neon.tech/terms-of-service).

We provide updates regarding any disruption in our Services on our [status page](https://neonstatus.com/). Please check this source first before seeking support.

### Issue resolution

Neon will make commercially reasonable efforts to resolve any Issues submitted by customers on eligible plans. Such efforts may (at our discretion) include helping with diagnosis, suggesting workarounds, or changing the Product in a new release. An “Issue” is a material and verifiable failure of the Product to conform to its Documentation. Support will not be provided for the following: (1) use of the Products in a manner inconsistent with the applicable Documentation, (2) modifications to the Products not provided by or approved in writing by Neon, (3) use of the Products with third-party software not provided or approved by Neon. The Customer shall not submit Issues arising from any products other than the Products or otherwise use Support for unsupported products; this includes issues caused by third-party integrations.

### Billing issues

If you, the Customer, believe that your invoice or billing receipt is incorrect, we strongly encourage you to contact our Support team rather than filing a dispute with your card provider. Should a payment dispute be filed before getting in touch with us, we are limited in terms of the action we can take to resolve the matter. Once a dispute has been made with the card provider, the account associated with it and all deployments under it may be suspended until it has been resolved.

### Response times

Neon aims to respond to all **paid subscription** requests in a timely manner and as soon as practically possible. Customers are prioritized based on their plan and [Severity](#severity-levels) of their issue. We only commit to responding to Customers with an Enterprise subscription using the target response time guidelines below.

#### Enterprise target response times

The table below outlines Neon’s guidelines for the various support tiers of our Enterprise support plan.

These times relate to the time it takes Neon to respond to the Customer’s initial request. This guideline only applies when submitting a support ticket through the Neon Console.

|    Severity Level     | Enterprise Standard                       | Enterprise Gold                          |
| :-------------------: | ----------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| Severity 1 (Critical) | \< 2 hours (during Normal Business Hours) | \< 1 hour                                |
|   Severity 2 (High)   | \< 2 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 1 day                                 |
|  Severity 3 (Normal)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours) |
|   Severity 4 (Low)    | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours)  | \< 3 days (during Normal Business Hours) |

### Severity levels

When the Customer submits an issue (with or without specifying a starting severity), Neon will reasonably assess its severity according to the appropriate severity levels defined below. Neon reserves the right to set, upgrade and downgrade severities of support tickets, on a case-by-case basis, considering any available mitigations, workarounds, and timely cooperation from Customers. Neon will explain the reasoning to the Customer and will resolve any disagreement regarding the severity as soon as is reasonably practicable. **Critical and High-priority levels should not be used for low-impact issues or general questions\!**

A detailed explanation of each severity level, including several examples, is provided below.

#### Severity 1 (Critical)

- Catastrophic problems in the Customer’s production system leading to loss of service or impact on the Customer’s business
- Unavailability of the service
- Security breaches that compromise the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the database or its data.

<Admonition type="note">
If Critical is selected during the case creation, the customer will be asked to provide in-depth details on the business impact the issue has caused.
</Admonition>

Examples:

1. A complete outage of the service provided by Neon
2. Security breaches
3. Error impacting the project as a whole (all endpoints/db affected)
4. Error impacting multiple projects
5. EP/Branch/DB unreachable
6. Data corruption/Data loss

#### Severity 2 (High)

Means a high-impact problem in a customer’s production systems. Essential operations are seriously disrupted, but a workaround exists that allows for continued essential operations.

- Non-essential modifications to configuration, like adjusting database parameters or table schema
- Minor performance concerns that have minimal impact on database usability
- Minor issues related to application integrations, such as minor API connectivity problems
- Small-scale challenges with data import/export, data transformation, or data loading processes

Examples:

1. Partial outage of the service provided by Neon: service usable, but key feature unusable, e.g.:
   - Cannot create a new branch
   - Cannot execute a branch [restore](/docs/guides/branch-restore)
   - Cannot peform PITR
   - Etc.
2. Any use case that would require a high load of manual work on the customer side to mitigate an issue on our end
3. Any use case which massively and negatively affects the customer's business

#### Severity 3 (Normal)

A medium-impact problem on a production or non-production system that involves:

- Partial or limited loss of non-critical functionality
- A usage problem that involves no loss in functionality

Customers can continue essential operations. Normal problems also include issues with non-production systems, such as test and development systems.

Examples:

1. RCA for past outages or incidents (no disruption of the service at the moment)
2. Sporadic connection failure/timeouts/retries
3. Cannot connect with random third-party framework or tool (but can connect generally speaking)
4. Any use case which has a minor impact on the customer's business
5. Poor performing queries/ingestion
6. Billing issues

#### Severity 4 (Low)

- A general usage question; here is no impact on the product's quality, performance, or functionality in a production or non-production system
- Any request for information, enhancement, or documentation clarification regarding the platform

Examples:

1. Feature requests/feature enablement
2. General questions (“active time,” “how to backup a DB,” “how to ingest data”) and feedback
3. Any use case that has no impact on the customer's business at all

### Etiquette

Regardless of the method or location through which Neon provides Support, communication should be professional and respectful. Any communication that is deemed objectionable by Neon staff is not tolerated. This includes but is not limited to any communication that is abusive or contains profane language. Neon reserves the right to terminate Support Services in the event of any such objectionable communication.

### Customer responsibilities

To ensure efficient resolution of issues, customers are expected to (1) provide detailed information about the issue, (2) cooperate with the Support team during troubleshooting, and (3) utilize available self-service resources for basic inquiries.

### Changes to the support policy

We reserve the right to modify, amend, or update this Support Policy, including the types of support offered, support hours, response times, and support plans, at any time and at our sole discretion. Any changes to the Support Policy will be effective immediately upon posting a revised version of this Support Policy. Continued use of our services after such modifications will constitute acknowledgment and acceptance of the changes.
