---
title: 'PostgreSQL CREATE PROCEDURE'
redirectFrom: 
            - /docs/postgresql/postgresql-plpgsql/postgresql-create-procedure/
ogImage: ../../../defaultHero.jpg
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `CREATE PROCEDURE` statement to create new stored procedures.



## Introduction to PostgreSQL CREATE PROCEDURE statement



So far, you have learned how to [define user-defined functions](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-plpgsql/postgresql-create-function/) using the `create function` statement.



A drawback of user-defined functions is that they cannot execute [transactions](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-transaction/). In other words, inside a user-defined function, you cannot [start a transaction](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-tutorial/postgresql-transaction), and commit or rollback it.



PostgreSQL 11 introduced stored procedures that support transactions.



To define a new stored procedure, you use the `create procedure` statement with the following syntax:



```
create [or replace] procedure procedure_name(parameter_list)
language plpgsql
as $$
declare
-- variable declaration
begin
-- stored procedure body
end; $$
```



In this syntax:



- First, specify the name of the stored procedure after the `create procedure` keywords.
- -
- Second, define parameters for the stored procedure. A stored procedure can accept zero or more parameters.
- -
- Third, specify `plpgsql` as the procedural language for the stored procedure. Note that you can use other procedural languages for the stored procedure such as SQL, C, etc.
- -
- Finally, use the dollar-quoted string constant syntax to define the body of the stored procedure.
- 


Parameters in stored procedures can have the `in` and `inout` modes but cannot have the `out` mode.



A stored procedure does not return a value. You cannot use the `return` statement with a value inside a store procedure like this:



```
return expression;
```



However, you can use the `return` statement without the `expression` to stop the stored procedure immediately:



```
return;
```



If you want to return a value from a stored procedure, you can use parameters with the `inout` mode.



## PostgreSQL CREATE PROCEDURE statement examples



We will use the following `accounts` table for the demonstration:



```
drop table if exists accounts;

create table accounts (
    id int generated by default as identity,
    name varchar(100) not null,
    balance dec(15,2) not null,
    primary key(id)
);

insert into accounts(name,balance)
values('Bob',10000);

insert into accounts(name,balance)
values('Alice',10000);
```



The following statement shows the data from the `accounts` table:



```
select * from accounts;
```



Output:



```
 id | name  | balance
----+-------+----------
  1 | Bob   | 10000.00
  2 | Alice | 10000.00
(2 rows)
```



The following example creates a stored procedure named `transfer` that transfers a specified amount of money from one account to another.



```
create or replace procedure transfer(
   sender int,
   receiver int,
   amount dec
)
language plpgsql
as $$
begin
    -- subtracting the amount from the sender's account
    update accounts
    set balance = balance - amount
    where id = sender;

    -- adding the amount to the receiver's account
    update accounts
    set balance = balance + amount
    where id = receiver;

    commit;
end;$$;
```



## Calling a stored procedure



To call a stored procedure, you use the `CALL` statement as follows:



```
call stored_procedure_name(argument_list);
```



For example, this statement invokes the `transfer` stored procedure to transfer `$1,000` from Bob's account to Alice's account.



```
call transfer(1,2,1000);
```



The following statement verifies the data in the `accounts` table after the transfer:



```
SELECT * FROM accounts;
```



Output:



```
 id | name  | balance
----+-------+----------
  1 | Bob   |  9000.00
  2 | Alice | 11000.00
(2 rows)
```



The output shows that the transfer has been successful.



## Summary



- Use `create procedure` statement to define a new stored procedure.
- -
- Use the `call` statement to invoke a stored procedure.
- 
