content/docs/postgresql/postgresql-create-table-as.md, before:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS'
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-data-verification.png
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `CREATE TABLE AS` statement to create a new table from the result set of a query.

## Introduction to the PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE statement

The `CREATE TABLE AS` statement [creates a new table](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-create-table) and fills it with the data returned by a query. The following shows the syntax of the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement:

```
CREATE TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

In this syntax:

1.
2. First, specify the new table name after the `CREATE TABLE` clause.
3.
4.
5.
6. Second, provide a query whose result set is added to the new table after the `AS` keyword.
7.

The `TEMPORARY` or `TEMP` keyword allows you to create a [temporary table](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-temporary-table):

```
CREATE TEMP TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

The `UNLOGGED` keyword allows the new table to be created as an unlogged table:

```
CREATE UNLOGGED TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

The columns of the new table will have the names and data types associated with the output columns of the `SELECT` clause.

If you want the table columns to have different names, you can specify the new table columns after the new table name:

```
CREATE TABLE new_table_name ( column_name_list)
AS query;
```

If you want to avoid an error by creating a new table that already exists, you can use the `IF NOT EXISTS` option as follows:

```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS new_table_name
AS query;
```

## PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS statement examples

We will use the `film` and `film_category` table from the [sample database](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-getting-started/postgresql-sample-database)for the demonstration.

![film_and_film_category_tables](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/film_and_film_category_tables.png)

The following example uses the CREATE TABLE AS statement to create a new table that contains the films whose category is 1:

```
CREATE TABLE action_film
AS
SELECT
    film_id,
    title,
    release_year,
    length,
    rating
FROM
    film
INNER JOIN film_category USING (film_id)
WHERE
    category_id = 1;
```

To verify the table creation, you can query data from the `action_film` table:

```
SELECT * FROM action_film
ORDER BY title;
```

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS data verification](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-data-verification.png)

To check the structure of the `action_film`, you can use the following command in the psql tool:

```
\d action_film;
```

It returns the following output:

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS example](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-example.png)

As clearly shown in the output, the names and data types of the `action_film` table are derived from the columns of the `SELECT` clause.

If the `SELECT` clause contains expressions, it is a good practice to override the columns, for example:

```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS film_rating (rating, film_count)
AS
SELECT
    rating,
    COUNT (film_id)
FROM
    film
GROUP BY
    rating;
```

This example statement created a new table `film_rating` and filled it with the summary data from the `film` table. It explicitly specified the column names for the new table instead of using the column names from the `SELECT` clause.

To check the structure of the `film_rating` table, you use the following command in psql tool:

```
\d film_rating
```

The following is the output:

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS with explicit column names](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-with-explicit-column-names.png)

Note that the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement is similar to the `SELECT INTO` statement, but the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement is preferred because it is not confused with other uses of the `SELECT INTO` syntax in [PL/pgSQL](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-plpgsql/). In addition, the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement provides a superset of the functionality offered by the `SELECT INTO` statement.

## Summary

- Use the PostgreSQL `CREATE TABLE AS` statement to create a new table from the result of a query.

Commit message:

docs: use fixed script to fix more links

content/docs/postgresql/postgresql-create-table-as.md, after:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS'
redirectFrom:
    - /docs/postgresql/postgresql-tutorial/postgresql-create-table-as
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-data-verification.png
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `CREATE TABLE AS` statement to create a new table from the result set of a query.

## Introduction to the PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE statement

The `CREATE TABLE AS` statement [creates a new table](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-create-table) and fills it with the data returned by a query. The following shows the syntax of the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement:

```
CREATE TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

In this syntax:

1.
2. First, specify the new table name after the `CREATE TABLE` clause.
3.
4.
5.
6. Second, provide a query whose result set is added to the new table after the `AS` keyword.
7.

The `TEMPORARY` or `TEMP` keyword allows you to create a [temporary table](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-temporary-table):

```
CREATE TEMP TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

The `UNLOGGED` keyword allows the new table to be created as an unlogged table:

```
CREATE UNLOGGED TABLE new_table_name
AS query;
```

The columns of the new table will have the names and data types associated with the output columns of the `SELECT` clause.

If you want the table columns to have different names, you can specify the new table columns after the new table name:

```
CREATE TABLE new_table_name ( column_name_list)
AS query;
```

If you want to avoid an error by creating a new table that already exists, you can use the `IF NOT EXISTS` option as follows:

```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS new_table_name
AS query;
```

## PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS statement examples

We will use the `film` and `film_category` table from the [sample database](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-getting-started/postgresql-sample-database)for the demonstration.

![film_and_film_category_tables](/postgresqltutorial_data/film_and_film_category_tables.png)

The following example uses the CREATE TABLE AS statement to create a new table that contains the films whose category is 1:

```
CREATE TABLE action_film
AS
SELECT
    film_id,
    title,
    release_year,
    length,
    rating
FROM
    film
INNER JOIN film_category USING (film_id)
WHERE
    category_id = 1;
```

To verify the table creation, you can query data from the `action_film` table:

```
SELECT * FROM action_film
ORDER BY title;
```

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS data verification](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-data-verification.png)

To check the structure of the `action_film`, you can use the following command in the psql tool:

```
\d action_film;
```

It returns the following output:

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS example](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-example.png)

As clearly shown in the output, the names and data types of the `action_film` table are derived from the columns of the `SELECT` clause.

If the `SELECT` clause contains expressions, it is a good practice to override the columns, for example:

```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS film_rating (rating, film_count)
AS
SELECT
    rating,
    COUNT (film_id)
FROM
    film
GROUP BY
    rating;
```

This example statement created a new table `film_rating` and filled it with the summary data from the `film` table. It explicitly specified the column names for the new table instead of using the column names from the `SELECT` clause.

To check the structure of the `film_rating` table, you use the following command in psql tool:

```
\d film_rating
```

The following is the output:

![PostgreSQL CREATE TABLE AS with explicit column names](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-03-PostgreSQL-CREATE-TABLE-AS-with-explicit-column-names.png)

Note that the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement is similar to the `SELECT INTO` statement, but the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement is preferred because it is not confused with other uses of the `SELECT INTO` syntax in [PL/pgSQL](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-plpgsql/). In addition, the `CREATE TABLE AS` statement provides a superset of the functionality offered by the `SELECT INTO` statement.

## Summary

- Use the PostgreSQL `CREATE TABLE AS` statement to create a new table from the result of a query.
