content/docs/postgresql/postgresql-group-by.md, before:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL GROUP BY'
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2020-07-PostgreSQL-GROUP-BY-1.png
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use PostgreSQL `GROUP BY` clause to divide rows into groups.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause

The `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows returned from the `SELECT` statement into groups.

For each group, you can apply an [aggregate function](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-aggregate-functions) such as `SUM()` to calculate the sum of items or `COUNT()` to get the number of items in the groups.

The following illustrates the basic syntax of the `GROUP BY` clause:

```
SELECT
   column_1,
   column_2,
   ...,
   aggregate_function(column_3)
FROM
   table_name
GROUP BY
   column_1,
   column_2,
   ...;
```

In this syntax:

- First, select the columns that you want to group such as `column1` and `column2`, and column that you want to apply an aggregate function (`column3`).
- Second, list the columns that you want to group in the `GROUP BY` clause.

The `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows by the values in the columns specified in the `GROUP BY` clause and calculates a value for each group.

It's possible to use other clauses of the `SELECT` statement with the `GROUP BY` clause.

PostgreSQL evaluates the `GROUP BY` clause after the `FROM` and `WHERE` clauses and before the `HAVING` `SELECT`, `DISTINCT`, [`ORDER BY`](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-order-by)and `LIMIT` clauses.

![PostgreSQL GROUP BY](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2020-07-PostgreSQL-GROUP-BY-1.png)

## PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause examples

Let's take a look at the `payment` table in the [sample database](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-getting-started/postgresql-sample-database/ "PostgreSQL Sample Database").

![payment](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2019-12-payment.png)

### 1) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY without an aggregate function example

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the `customer_id` from the payment table:

```
SELECT
  customer_id
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id
-------------
           1
           2
           3
           4
           5
           6
           7
           8
...
```

Each customer has one or more payments. The `GROUP BY` clause removes duplicate values in the customer_id column and returns distinct customer ids. In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause works like the `DISTINCT` operator.

### 2) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with SUM() function example

The `GROUP BY` clause is useful when used in conjunction with an [aggregate function](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-aggregate-functions).

The following query uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the total payment paid by each customer:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  SUM (amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id |  sum
-------------+--------
           1 | 114.70
           2 | 123.74
           3 | 130.76
           4 |  81.78
           5 | 134.65
           6 |  84.75
           7 | 130.72
...
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause groups the payments by the customer id. For each group, it calculates the total payment.

The following statement uses the `ORDER BY` clause with `GROUP BY` clause to sort the groups by total payments:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  SUM (amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  SUM (amount) DESC;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id |  sum
-------------+--------
         148 | 211.55
         526 | 208.58
         178 | 194.61
         137 | 191.62
         144 | 189.60
```

### 3) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause with the JOIN clause

The following statement uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the total payment for each customer and display the customer name and amount:

```
SELECT
  first_name || ' ' || last_name full_name,
  SUM (amount) amount
FROM
  payment
  INNER JOIN customer USING (customer_id)
GROUP BY
  full_name
ORDER BY
  amount DESC;
```

Output:

```
       full_name       | amount
-----------------------+--------
 Eleanor Hunt          | 211.55
 Karl Seal             | 208.58
 Marion Snyder         | 194.61
 Rhonda Kennedy        | 191.62
 Clara Shaw            | 189.60
...
```

In this example, we join the `payment` table with the `customer` table using an [inner join](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-inner-join) to get the customer names and group customers by their names.

### 4) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with COUNT() function example

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause with the `COUNT()` function to count the number of payments processed by each staff:

```
SELECT
 staff_id,
 COUNT (payment_id)
FROM
 payment
GROUP BY
 staff_id;
```

Output:

```
 staff_id | count
----------+-------
        1 |  7292
        2 |  7304
(2 rows)
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows in the `payment` table into groups and groups them by value in the `staff_id` column. For each group, it counts the number of rows using the `COUNT()` function.

### 5) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with multiple columns

The following example uses a `GROUP BY` clause to group rows by values in two columns:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  staff_id,
  SUM(amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  staff_id,
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id | staff_id |  sum
-------------+----------+--------
           1 |        2 |  53.85
           1 |        1 |  60.85
           2 |        2 |  67.88
           2 |        1 |  55.86
           3 |        1 |  59.88
...
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows in the `payment` table by the values in the `customer_id` and `staff_id` columns. For each group of `(customer_id, staff_id)`, the `SUM()` calculates the total amount.

### 6) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause with a date column

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause to group the payments by payment date:

```
SELECT
  payment_date::date payment_date,
  SUM(amount) sum
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  payment_date::date
ORDER BY
  payment_date DESC;
```

Output:

```
payment_date |   sum
--------------+---------
 2007-05-14   |  514.18
 2007-04-30   | 5723.89
 2007-04-29   | 2717.60
 2007-04-28   | 2622.73
...
```

Since the values in the `payment_date` column are [timestamps](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-timestamp), we cast them to date values using the [cast operator](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-tutorial/postgresql-cast) `::`.

## Summary

- Use the PostgreSQL `GROUP BY` clause to divide rows into groups and apply an aggregate function to each group.

Commit message:

docs: use fixed script to fix more links

content/docs/postgresql/postgresql-group-by.md, after:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL GROUP BY'
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/postgresql/postgresql-tutorial/postgresql-group-by
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2020-07-PostgreSQL-GROUP-BY-1.png
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use PostgreSQL `GROUP BY` clause to divide rows into groups.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause

The `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows returned from the `SELECT` statement into groups.

For each group, you can apply an [aggregate function](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-aggregate-functions) such as `SUM()` to calculate the sum of items or `COUNT()` to get the number of items in the groups.

The following illustrates the basic syntax of the `GROUP BY` clause:

```
SELECT
   column_1,
   column_2,
   ...,
   aggregate_function(column_3)
FROM
   table_name
GROUP BY
   column_1,
   column_2,
   ...;
```

In this syntax:

- First, select the columns that you want to group such as `column1` and `column2`, and column that you want to apply an aggregate function (`column3`).
- Second, list the columns that you want to group in the `GROUP BY` clause.

The `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows by the values in the columns specified in the `GROUP BY` clause and calculates a value for each group.

It's possible to use other clauses of the `SELECT` statement with the `GROUP BY` clause.

PostgreSQL evaluates the `GROUP BY` clause after the `FROM` and `WHERE` clauses and before the `HAVING` `SELECT`, `DISTINCT`, [`ORDER BY`](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-order-by)and `LIMIT` clauses.

![PostgreSQL GROUP BY](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2020-07-PostgreSQL-GROUP-BY-1.png)

## PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause examples

Let's take a look at the `payment` table in the [sample database](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-getting-started/postgresql-sample-database/ "PostgreSQL Sample Database").

![payment](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2019-12-payment.png)

### 1) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY without an aggregate function example

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the `customer_id` from the payment table:

```
SELECT
  customer_id
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id
-------------
           1
           2
           3
           4
           5
           6
           7
           8
...
```

Each customer has one or more payments. The `GROUP BY` clause removes duplicate values in the customer_id column and returns distinct customer ids. In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause works like the `DISTINCT` operator.

### 2) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with SUM() function example

The `GROUP BY` clause is useful when used in conjunction with an [aggregate function](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-aggregate-functions).

The following query uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the total payment paid by each customer:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  SUM (amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id |  sum
-------------+--------
           1 | 114.70
           2 | 123.74
           3 | 130.76
           4 |  81.78
           5 | 134.65
           6 |  84.75
           7 | 130.72
...
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause groups the payments by the customer id. For each group, it calculates the total payment.

The following statement uses the `ORDER BY` clause with `GROUP BY` clause to sort the groups by total payments:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  SUM (amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  SUM (amount) DESC;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id |  sum
-------------+--------
         148 | 211.55
         526 | 208.58
         178 | 194.61
         137 | 191.62
         144 | 189.60
```

### 3) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause with the JOIN clause

The following statement uses the `GROUP BY` clause to retrieve the total payment for each customer and display the customer name and amount:

```
SELECT
  first_name || ' ' || last_name full_name,
  SUM (amount) amount
FROM
  payment
  INNER JOIN customer USING (customer_id)
GROUP BY
  full_name
ORDER BY
  amount DESC;
```

Output:

```
       full_name       | amount
-----------------------+--------
 Eleanor Hunt          | 211.55
 Karl Seal             | 208.58
 Marion Snyder         | 194.61
 Rhonda Kennedy        | 191.62
 Clara Shaw            | 189.60
...
```

In this example, we join the `payment` table with the `customer` table using an [inner join](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-inner-join) to get the customer names and group customers by their names.

### 4) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with COUNT() function example

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause with the `COUNT()` function to count the number of payments processed by each staff:

```
SELECT
 staff_id,
 COUNT (payment_id)
FROM
 payment
GROUP BY
 staff_id;
```

Output:

```
 staff_id | count
----------+-------
        1 |  7292
        2 |  7304
(2 rows)
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows in the `payment` table into groups and groups them by value in the `staff_id` column. For each group, it counts the number of rows using the `COUNT()` function.

### 5) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY with multiple columns

The following example uses a `GROUP BY` clause to group rows by values in two columns:

```
SELECT
  customer_id,
  staff_id,
  SUM(amount)
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  staff_id,
  customer_id
ORDER BY
  customer_id;
```

Output:

```
 customer_id | staff_id |  sum
-------------+----------+--------
           1 |        2 |  53.85
           1 |        1 |  60.85
           2 |        2 |  67.88
           2 |        1 |  55.86
           3 |        1 |  59.88
...
```

In this example, the `GROUP BY` clause divides the rows in the `payment` table by the values in the `customer_id` and `staff_id` columns. For each group of `(customer_id, staff_id)`, the `SUM()` calculates the total amount.

### 6) Using PostgreSQL GROUP BY clause with a date column

The following example uses the `GROUP BY` clause to group the payments by payment date:

```
SELECT
  payment_date::date payment_date,
  SUM(amount) sum
FROM
  payment
GROUP BY
  payment_date::date
ORDER BY
  payment_date DESC;
```

Output:

```
payment_date |   sum
--------------+---------
 2007-05-14   |  514.18
 2007-04-30   | 5723.89
 2007-04-29   | 2717.60
 2007-04-28   | 2622.73
...
```

Since the values in the `payment_date` column are [timestamps](/docs/postgresql/postgresql-timestamp), we cast them to date values using the [cast operator](https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-tutorial/postgresql-cast) `::`.

## Summary

- Use the PostgreSQL `GROUP BY` clause to divide rows into groups and apply an aggregate function to each group.
