---
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2023-04-14-docs
  - /docs/changelog/2023-04-14-console
  - /docs/changelog/2023-04-14-storage-and-compute
---

### Fixes & improvements

- API: Enabled checking for the Neon API specification to ensure that examples are updated when the specification is modified.
- API: Added a `history_retention_seconds` property to the [Project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getproject) response body. Neon retains a 7-day history to support point-in-time restore. History retention will become a configurable parameter in a future release.
- API: Increased the maximum value of the `suspend_timeout_seconds` property in the [Endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getprojectendpoint) API from 86400 seconds (1 day) to 604800 seconds (7 days). This change affects the maximum scale to zero setting that Neon Pro plan users can configure when creating or editing a compute endpoint. The scale to zero setting defines the number of seconds of inactivity after which a compute endpoint is automatically suspended. The default is 300 seconds (5 minutes). For more information, see [Scale to zero configuration](/docs/manage/endpoints#scale-to-zero-configuration).
- Control Plane: Added a constraint to ensure that the maximum autoscaling compute size is greater than or equal to the minimum compute size.
- UI: Redesigned the branch details page in the Neon Console. In addition to the information displayed previously, the page now provide usage metrics, including **Active time**, **Compute time**, **Written data**, and **Data transfer**. This information enables you to monitor usage for individual branches. Refer to our [Billing](/docs/introduction/about-billing) page for information about the usage metrics. The compute endpoint information on the branch details page has also been expanded to include **Compute size**, **Scale to zero delay**, and **Last active** information. **Compute size (min)** and **Compute size (max)** values are shown for computes with the [Autoscaling](/docs/introduction/autoscaling) feature enabled. For information about these values, see [View a compute endpoint](/docs/manage/endpoints#view-a-compute-endpoint).
- UI: Added an **Active time** column to the table on the **Branches** page in the Neon Console. This column shows the number of hours the branch compute endpoint has been active for the current month.
- UI: The **Connection Details** dialog displayed when creating a project or a branch now provides **Pooled connection** and **Direct connection** tabs, allowing you to copy a pooled or direct connection string for the ready-to-use `neondb` database. For information about connection pooling in Neon, see [Connection pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling).
- UI: Updated the `prisma.js` code example accessible from the **Connection Details** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**. The connection string now includes a `connect_timeout` parameter to prevent Prisma from timing out due to cold starts, and a `pgbouncer=true` parameter, which is required when using Prisma with a pooled connection string. For more information about using Neon with Prisma, see [Connect Neon to Prisma](/docs/guides/prisma).
- UI: Added icons and hover help to the **Usage** widget on the Neon Console.

### Support for the US East (N. Virginia) region

Added support for the `US East (N. Virginia) — aws-us-east-1` region. For more information about Neon's region support, see [Regions](/docs/introduction/regions).

### Postgres extension support

Added support for the `ip4r` and `pg_hint_plan` extensions. For more information about Postgres extensions supported by Neon, see [Postgres extensions](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions).

### Fixes & improvements

- Compute: Added support for `lz4` and `zstd` WAL compression methods.
- Compute: Added support for `procps`, which is a set of utilities for process monitoring.
- Pageserver: Implemented `syscalls` changes in the WAL redo `seccomp` (secure computing mode) code to ensure AArch64 support.

### Documentation updates

- Added a guide for using [Grafbase Edge Resolvers with Neon](/docs/guides/grafbase). The guide describes how to create a GraphQL API using Grafbase and use Edge Resolvers with the [Neon serverless driver](/docs/serverless/serverless-driver) to access your Neon database at the edge.
- Added a guide for using [WunderGraph with Neon](/docs/guides/wundergraph). WunderGraph is an open-source Backend for Frontend (BFF) framework designed to optimize developer workflows through API composition. The guide describes how you can use WunderGraph with Neon to accelerate application development.
- Added [Segment](https://segment.com/) to the list of applications and clients that support connecting to Neon. See [Tested applications and IDEs](/docs/connect/connect-postgres-gui#tested-gui-applications-and-ides).
- Added a topic describing how to connect to Neon securely. See [Connect to Neon securely](/docs/connect/connect-securely).
