---
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2023-04-14-docs
  - /docs/changelog/2023-04-14-console
---

### Postgres extension support

Added support for the [timescaledb](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb) extension, which scales Postgres for time-series data. For more information about Postgres extensions supported by Neon, see [Postgres extensions](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions/).

### Fixes & improvements

- UI: Added hover help to the `DEFAULT` branch badge that identifies a branch as the [default branch](/docs/reference/glossary#default-branch) for a project. The help message states that the compute endpoint associated with the default branch remains accessible if you exceed project limits, ensuring uninterrupted access to the data on your default branch.
- UI: Fixed the Neon **Project Creation** dialog to display a value for the **Fixed Size** compute option. A value was not displayed previously.
- UI: Fixed the **Create Compute Endpoint** and **Edit Compute Endpoint** dialogs to enable switching between **Fixed Size** and **Autoscaling** compute options, enabling you to configure the compute size for each compute endpoint individually. For information about Neon's Autoscaling feature, see [Autoscaling](/docs/introduction/autoscaling).
- UI: Fixed the **Edit Compute Endpoint** dialog so that the **Autoscaling** compute provisioning slider does not permit selecting unsupported minimum values. The minimum compute size for **Autoscaling** is 1 vCPU and 4 GB of RAM.
- UI: Fixed an issue that caused text on the Neon **Dashboard** to overflow when reducing the size of the browser window.

### Documentation updates

- Added documentation for Neon's newly released _Autoscaling_ feature. To learn how Neon automatically and transparently scales compute on demand, see [Autoscaling](/docs/introduction/autoscaling). Pro users can enable _Autoscaling_ when creating a Neon project or afterward by editing a compute endpoint. For instructions, see:

  - [Create a project](/docs/manage/projects#create-a-project)
  - [Edit a compute endpoint](/docs/manage/endpoints#edit-a-compute-endpoint)

- Added documentation for Neon's `pg_tiktoken` extension. This extension enables fast and efficient tokenization of data in your POstgres database using OpenAI's [tiktoken](https://github.com/openai/tiktoken) library. To learn how to install the extension, utilize its features for tokenization and token management, and integrate the extension with ChatGPT models, see [The pg_tiktoken extension](/docs/extensions/pg_tiktoken).
- Added documentation for `pg_vector` extension. This extension enables vector similarity search and storing embeddings in Postgres. It is particularly useful for applications involving natural language processing, such as those built on top of OpenAI's GPT models. For information about vector similarity and embeddings, how to enable the `pgvector` extension in Neon, and how to create, store, and query vectors, see [The pgvector extension](/docs/extensions/pgvector).
- Reorganized our Prisma documentation into two parts to make it easier for you to get started with Prisma and Neon.
- Added documentation describing default and non-default branches. Each Neon project has a default branch called `main`, by default. The advantage of the default branch is that its compute endpoint remains accessible if you exceed your project's limits, ensuring uninterrupted access to data that resides on the default branch. Any branch not designated as the default branch is considered a non-default branch. To learn more, see:

  - [Default branch](/docs/manage/branches#default-branch)
  - [Non-default branch](/docs/manage/branches#non-default-branch)

- Added definitions for Neon _operations_ to the [glossary](/docs/reference/glossary). An operation is an action performed by the Neon Control Plane on a Neon object or resource. Operations are typically initiated by user actions, such as creating a branch or deleting a database. Other operations are initiated by the Neon Control Plane, such as suspending a compute endpoint after a period of inactivity or checking its availability. You can monitor operations to keep an eye on the overall health of your Neon project or to check the status of specific operations. When working with the Neon API, you can poll the status of operations to ensure that an API request is completed before issuing the next API request. For more information, refer to our [Operations](/docs/manage/operations) documentation.
