---
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2023-02-14-console
---

### Fixes & improvements

- API: The `connection_uris` property in the [Create branch](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createprojectbranch) response is no longer a required property, meaning that the field is not included in the response if the value is empty. The `connection_uris` property is now returned only in cases where a branch has only a single database and role.
- API: Added property descriptions for `Project`, `Branch`, `Endpoint`, `Database`, `Role`, and `Operation` endpoints.
- Control Plane: A compute endpoint now remains in an active state after resetting a password, creating a role, or creating a database. Previously, a compute endpoint was suspended following those actions. This behavior caused unnecessary latency when accessing the compute endpoint immediately afterward. The latency was due to the few seconds required to restart the compute endpoint.
- Integrations: Improved text and fixed a documentation link in the [Neon Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon) UI.
- UI: The [Neon Free Tier](/docs/introduction/free-tier) now includes a compute endpoint with each branch. Previously, there was a limit of 3 endpoints per project. This limit was removed based on user feedback indicating that it was not conducive to developer workflows that create a branch for each preview deployment.

  Instead of limiting the number of endpoint computes in the Neon Free Tier, there is now a limit of 100 compute active time hours per month. Currently, the compute hour limit applies to newly created projects only. The limit does not yet apply to existing projects. We expect to apply the limit to all projects later this quarter. Regardless of the compute hour limit, you are always able to connect to the compute endpoint associated with the default branch of your Neon project. For more information, see [Free Tier](/docs/introduction/free-tier).

  If you have any questions about how this change to Neon's Free Tier limits might impact your existing project, please reach out to us on our [Discord Server](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp).

- UI: With the removal of the endpoint limit, endpoints no longer appear in the **Project limits** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**.
- UI: With the introduction of pooled connections strings (see [How to use connection pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling#how-to-use-connection-pooling)), enabling pooling for a compute endpoint is deprecated. With this change, the **Pooler enabled** toggle on the **Edit Compute Endpoint** dialog is now disabled and will be removed in a future release.
- UI: Changed a column heading in the table on the **Operations** page from **ID** to **Action**. The items listed in the column are operation actions rather than IDs.
- UI: Renamed the **Users** page in the Neon Console to **Roles**. This change aligns Neon's terminology with Postgres, which uses the concept of "roles" to refer to database users. (See [Database roles](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/user-manag.html), in the _PostgreSQL documentation_.) All UI elements in the Neon Console were updated to reflect this change.
