---
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2023-05-16-storage-and-compute
  - /docs/changelog/2023-05-16-console
---

### Fixes & improvements

- Control Plane: Project limit checks are now performed for the Neon project owner rather than the currently logged in user. This change enables project limits to be checked against Pro plan limits rather than Free Tier limits when a Free Tier user accesses a project shared by a Pro plan user.
- Control Plane: Newly created Neon projects in a particular region are now assigned Pageservers through a random selection process, which is weighted according to Pageserver free space.
- Control Plane: Removed an unnecessary fetch of project parameters by the [Activity Monitor](/docs/reference/glossary#activity-monitor).
- UI: Implemented usability improvements for modals. The changes ensure that modals receive focus when opened and that modal buttons are disabled until there is a valid change and while a form is being submitted. New error messages were also added.
- UI: Improved the hover effect when hovering over steps in the onboarding section on the Neon **Dashboard**.
- API: The [Update endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/updateprojectendpoint) API now permits moving an endpoint from one branch to another without specifying `autoscaling_limit_max_cu` and `autoscaling_limit_min_cu` property values, which should not be required when performing this action.
- Control Plane: Neon plan limits are now transmitted when using [passwordless authentication](/docs/connect/passwordless-connect), enabling users logging in via this method to create projects, in accordance with their plan limits.
- UI: Fixed an issue that prevented Free Tier users from creating a compute endpoint for an existing branch. The **Fixed size** compute setting in the **Create Compute Endpoint** modal defaulted to 1 vCPU, which exceeded the Free Tier compute size limit.
- UI: Fixed the **Autosuspend delay** control on the **Create Compute Endpoint** and **Edit Compute Endpoint** modals to permit values up to 604800 seconds (7 days). The limit was recently increased from 86400 seconds (1 day).
- UI: Fixed issues with how icons were displayed in the **Usage** widget on the **Neon Dashboard**.

### Fixes & improvements

- Proxy: Neon uses compute endpoint domain names to route incoming client connections. For example, to connect to the compute endpoint `ep-mute-recipe-239816`, we ask that you connect to `ep-mute-recipe-239816.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech`. However, the Postgres wire protocol does not transfer the server domain name, so Neon relies on the Server Name Indication (SNI) extension of the TLS protocol to do this. Unfortunately, not all Postgres clients support SNI. When these clients attempt to connect, they receive an error indicating that the "endpoint ID is not specified".

  As a workaround, Neon provides a special connection option that allows clients to specify the compute endpoint they are connecting to. The connection option was previously named `project`. This option name is now deprecated but remains supported for backward compatibility. The new name for the connection option is `endpoint`, which is used as shown in the following example:

  ```txt shouldWrap
  postgresql://[user]:[password]@[neon_hostname]/[dbname]?options=endpoint%3D[endpoint_id]
  ```

  For more information about this special connection option for Postgres clients that do not support SNI, refer to our [connection errors](/docs/connect/connection-errors) documentation.

- Pageserver: Branch deletion status was not tracked in S3 storage, which could result in a deleted branch remaining accessible.
- Pageserver: Addressed intermittent `failed to flush page requests` errors by adjusting Pageserver timeout settings.
