---
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2023-02-02-console
---

### Fixes & improvements

- API: The response body for projects, branches, and endpoints now exposes a `creation_source` property. Currently, the `creation_source` property identifies the `console` as the creation source in all cases but will eventually identify other sources, such as the Neon API.
- API: Listing projects with the Neon API now supports cursor-based pagination. Pagination enables limiting the number of responses displayed at one time, which is useful when a response includes a large number of projects. By default, the first 10 projects are returned. You can set the `limit` parameter to request up to 100 projects.
- API: Fixed a race condition that occurred when creating a project and attempting to fetch information about branch in the same project.
- Control Plane: Added support for OpenTelemetry for a number of operations. OpenTelemetry is an observability framework that assists in generating and capturing telemetry data from cloud-native software.
- Control Plane: Removed the `stop_compute` operation, which is no longer used. It was replaced by `suspend_compute`.
- Control Plane: Fixed a `cannot execute GRANT in a read-only` error that occurred when a database owner enabled the `default_transaction_read_only` setting, preventing the Control Plane from configuring the compute instance.
- UI: Revised the layout of the Neon Console to improve navigation. The following enhancements were implemented:
  - A new sidebar with icons replaces the navigation bar that was located at the top of the console.
  - **Operations**, **Databases**, and **Users** pages, previously accessed from the **Project settings** page, are now directly accessible from the sidebar.
  - Links to **Community**, **Feedback**, **Docs**, **Release notes**, and **Support**, previously located in a **Help** menu in the navigation bar, were moved to the sidebar for easier access.
  - The Neon account avatar was moved from the top right corner of the console to the sidebar.
- UI: Fixed the positioning of selection menus in the console to avoid scrolling outside intended boundaries.
