---
description: The next act for the Neon platform
---

### The next act for the Neon platform

The Neon Product Team spent this week mapping the future state of our platform, focused on shipping faster with Postgres, and what it takes to get there.

We're excited about the big changes coming. While we want to keep some surprises under wraps, we'd like to share a few details here to let you know what to expect, and get any feedback you'd like to offer:

- **Full-stack developer workflows** &#8212; We're building end-to-end developer workflows focused on your database needs. Things like data and schema migrations, CI/CD integrations, and more.
- **Complex data workflows** &#8212; We're also building workflows to handle the more complex needs of managing data across multiple environments. Migrations, data anonymization, and staging deployments are a few examples. If you have ideas on what you'd like to see in these workflows, [let us know on Discord](https://discord.com/invite/92vNTzKDGp).
- **Integrated developer applications** &#8212; We're making plans to solve other hard problems in App DevX, which we'll share when the time is right. Stay tuned.

Join the [Neon Early Access Program](https://neon.tech/early-access-program) to be among the first to try these Neon features as they come online.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Did you know?">
Neon supports passwordless connections via `psql`. Instead of supplying a connection string when connecting with `psql`, you can simply type `psql -h pg.neon.tech` to authenticate through a browser-based authentication flow.
</Admonition>
