---
title: Neon Vercel Integration GA and more
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2024-03-08-console
---

### The Neon Vercel Integration is now GA

After several improvements and enhancements, we're excited to announce that the [Neon Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon) is now officially out of beta and has entered General Availability (GA). Thank you to all our early adopters for your valuable feedback.

Using Neon with Vercel enables you to deploy a managed Postgres backend in seconds and automatically create a database branch for each preview deployment. To learn more, see [Connect with the Neon Vercel Integration](/docs/guides/vercel).

### Fixes & improvements

- The [Neon Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon) now supports immediate update of Postgres environment variables from the Vercel drawer on the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console. For instructions, see [Manage Vercel integration settings](/docs/guides/vercel#manage-vercel-integration-settings).
- Fixed an issue that prevented a Scale plan user from submitting a support ticket from the **Create Support Ticket** form in the Neon Console.
- Added alert messages that appear in the **Usage** section on the **Billing** page when approaching or exceeding your plan allowances. For information about Neon plans and allowances, see [Neon plans](/docs/introduction/plans).
- Added a confirmation dialog showing the selected plan and payment method when a user selects **Upgrade to Launch plan** or **Upgrade to Scale plan** on the **Billing** page in the Neon Console.
- Updated PgBouncer to [version 1.22.1](https://www.pgbouncer.org/2024/03/pgbouncer-1-22-1). Neon uses PgBouncer to provide support for [connection pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling).
- Removed a redundant **Close** button from the **Edit compute endpoint** drawer on the Free Tier.
- Fixed an issue that caused project creation limits to be ignored when creating a new project before the previous project creation operation was finished.
- Fixed an issue that incorrectly permitted a Neon account to share a project with the owner of the project.

### What's new in docs?

We have a few new guides for you to check out this week:

- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Prisma ORM](/docs/guides/prisma-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Drizzle ORM](/docs/guides/drizzle-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Sequelize](/docs/guides/sequelize)
- [Migrate your MySQL database to Neon Postgres](/docs/import/migrate-mysql)
- [Neon pricing estimation guide](/docs/introduction/pricing-estimation-guide)
