---
description: Neon Vercel integration enhancements and more
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2024-03-29-console
---

### Neon Vercel integration enhancements

We've introduced a few enhancements to help you manage preview branches created by the Neon Vercel integration:

- There is now a drop-down menu on the **Branches** tab in the **Vercel integration** drawer where you can delete all preview branches or those marked as `Obsolete`. Obsolete branches are those without an associated git branch. For more information, see [Manage branches created by the integration](/docs/guides/vercel#manage-branches-created-by-the-integration).
- The integration now supports automatic deletion of obsolete preview branches. You can enable this feature by selecting **Automatically delete obsolete Neon branches** when installing the integration. We'll soon add an option to the Vercel integration drawer that lets you enable and disable automatic branch deletion for new and existing integrations. Deletion occurs when the git branch that triggered a branch's creation is deleted.
- We now show a branch creation date for each preview branch listed on the **Branches** tab in the Vercel integration drawer.

### Fixes & improvements

- Corrected an issue that prevented Free Tier users from creating a new read-write compute for a default branch after deleting the one created with their Neon project.
- Updated the content displayed on the **Projects** page in the Neon Console when all projects are removed.
- Adjusted copy and links on the connection details modal that's displayed after creating a new project.

### What's new in docs?

We have new schema migration guides for you to check out this week:

- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Django](/docs/guides/django-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Ruby on Rails](/docs/guides/rails-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and SQLAlchemy](/docs/guides/sqlalchemy-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Entity Framework](/docs/guides/entity-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Laravel](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/laravel-migrations)

We're also excited to share a new [Postgres Documentation Page](/docs/postgresql/introduction), a central hub for all things Postgres. This includes the latest topics listed below. As **Neon is Postgres**, we encourage you to consult both our Neon-specific guides and the [official PostgreSQL documentation](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/).

- [Enhancing Postgres Query Performance](/docs/postgresql/query-performance): Dive into strategies for fine-tuning your queries.
- [Postgres Query Reference](/docs/postgresql/query-reference): A go-to resource for basic to advanced Postgres queries.
