---
description: A new Business plan with more, new monitoring charts for Read Replicas, and a protected branches update 
---

### A new Business plan with more compute and storage

We're pleased to announce that we've launched a new **Business** plan that provides higher compute and storage allowances (1,000 compute hours and 500 GB of storage) in addition to all of Neon's advanced features. This plan offers potential cost savings for customers requiring more than our Scale plan provides.

To learn more about our new plan, please refer to our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page and [Plans](/docs/introduction/plans) documentation.

### New monitoring graphs for Read Replicas

We added two new charts to the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console for monitoring Read Replica replication lag. These charts are visible when selecting a **Replica** compute from the **Compute** drop-down menu.
  - **Replication delay bytes**: Measures the total size, in bytes, of the data that has been sent from the primary compute but has not yet been applied on the replica. 
  - **Replication delay seconds**: Indicates the time delay, in seconds, between the last transaction committed on the primary compute and the application of that transaction on the replica.

For more information, see [Monitoring dashboard](/docs/introduction/monitoring-page).

### A protected branches update

When you perform a [branch reset or restore](/docs/introduction/point-in-time-restore) operation on a child branch, the role passwords on the child branch are now preserved. Previously, resetting or restoring a child branch (where passwords were previously regenerated) resets the passwords back to those used on the parent branch. The protected branches feature is available with the Neon [Scale](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) plan. To learn more, refer to our [Protected Branches guide](/docs/guides/protected-branches).

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- The **Branches** page now includes a **Created by** column that displays the name and avatar of the user who created the branch, if available. Additionally, a **Web** identifier tag is displayed if the branch was created via the Neon Console.
- Fixed an issue on the **Billing** page where an incorrect branch limit was displayed for a project shared by a paid Neon account.
- Fixed an issue that prevented restoring a protected branch.
- Fixed an issue with the [Neon Vercel Integration](/docs/guides/vercel#add-the-neon-vercel-integration) that caused a `Something went wrong` error when creating a new Neon project during integration installation.
- Fixed an issue with the database selector in the [Neon SQL Editor](/docs/get-started-with-neon/query-with-neon-sql-editor). Selecting a different database did not change the database.

</details>
