---
description: The latest product updates from Neon
---

### tbd

## Branch archiving on the Free Plan

On the Free plan, Neon now automatically archives branches that are **older than 14 days** and **have not been accessed for 24 hours**. No action is required to unarchive a branch. It happens automatically when you access the branch. This change reduces storage costs and enables us to grow our Free plan even further.

To learn more, see [Branch archiving](/docs/guides/branch-archiving).

And don't forget to check out this week's fixes and improvements:

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Neon Authorize**

- **Neon Vercel Integration**

- **Neon API updates**

  - Addressed an issue with the [Get consumption metrics for each project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getconsumptionhistoryperproject) endpoint. The endpoint was failing for some users due to restrictive validation checking project ID lists.

- **Neon CLI enhancements**

  The Neon CLI was updated to version 2.4.0. For upgrade instructions, see [Upgrading the Neon CLI](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-install#upgrade).

  The `branches list` command now shows a branch's `Current State`. Branch states include:

  - `init` - the branch is being created but is not available for querying.
  - `ready` - the branch is fully operational and ready for querying. Expect normal query response times.
  - `archived` - the branch is stored in cost-effective archive storage. Expect slow query response times.

    ```bash
    neon branches list --project-id green-hat-46829796
    ┌───────────────────────────┬──────┬─────────┬───────────────┬──────────────────────┐
    │ Id                        │ Name │ Default │ Current State │ Created At           │
    ├───────────────────────────┼──────┼─────────┼───────────────┼──────────────────────┤
    │ br-muddy-firefly-a7kzf0d4 │ main │ true    │ ready         │ 2024-10-30T14:59:57Z │
    └───────────────────────────┴──────┴─────────┴───────────────┴──────────────────────┘
    ```

  The `Updated At` value was removed from the `branches list` command output. This value reflected internal metadata changes only, providing limited value.

- **Drizzle Studio update**

  The Drizzle Studio integration that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console has been updated to version 0.0.20. For improvements and fixes in this version, see the [Neon Drizzle Studio Integration Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-drizzle-studio-changelog/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

- **Fixes**

  - Fixed an issue where a user that logged into Neon Console would be directed to an organization page not found in the Neon Console after having been previously removed form the organization.

    <Admonition type="tip" title="Did you know?">

    </Admonition>

</details>
