---
description: Vercel integration updates, fixes & updates, and more
---

### Vercel integration updates

- The Vercel environment variables that are set when you add the integration to a Vercel project have changed. Previously, the integration set all of the following Postgres variables:

    - `DATABASE_URL`
    - `PGHOST`
    - `PGUSER`
    - `PGDATABASE`
    - `PGPASSWORD`

    The integration now sets only the `DATABASE_URL` variable by default. 
    
    If you prefer to use the other Postgres variables with your application instead of or in addition to the `DATABASE_URL` variable, you can enable the variables on the Integrations page in the Neon console. The variables you chose will be updated in your Vercel project on your next push. For details, see [Manage Vercel environment variables](/docs/guides/vercel#manage-vercel-environment-variables). 
- Branches created for preview deployments are now created from the primary branch of your Neon project. Previously, integration created branches from the initial root branch of your Neon project, which is designated as the primary branch by default. Neon allows you to [change the primary branch](/docs/manage/branches#set-a-branch-as-primary). If you have an older version of the integration that creates branches from your project's root branch, and you want branches created from your primary branch instead, you can upgrade your integration by reinstalling it from the Vercel Marketplace.

### Fixes & improvements


### What's new in docs?

We're building out our extension documentation. Check out our newest guides:

- [The pg_stat_statements extension](https://neon.tech/docs/extensions/pg_stat_statements)
- [The timescaledb extension](https://neon.tech/docs/extensions/timescaledb)

See our updated roadmap to see what's coming next and to share your ideas:

[Neon roadmap](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/roadmap)

### From the Neon Blog

In case you missed it, be sure to check out our latest post:

- [See you at FOSDEM and FOSDEM PGDay 2024](https://neon.tech/blog/see-you-at-fosdem-and-fosdem-pgday-2024)
