---
description: More CLI support for organizations, Postgres extension updates, new docs navigation, fixes & improvements
---

### More CLI support for Organizations

For users of Neon's [Organizations](/docs/manage/organizations) feature, which is currently in **private preview**, the Neon CLI [projects](/docs/reference/cli-projects) command now supports an `--org-id` option, allowing you to list or create projects in a specified organization; for example, you can use this command to list all projects belonging to the same organization:

```bash
neon projects list --org-id org-xxxx-xxxx
Projects
┌───────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────┬────────────────────┬──────────────────────┐
│ Id                        │ Name                      │ Region Id          │ Created At           │
├───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼──────────────────────┤
│ bright-moon-12345678      │ dev-backend-api           │ aws-us-east-2      │ 2024-07-26T11:43:37Z │
├───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼──────────────────────┤
│ silent-forest-87654321    │ test-integration-service  │ aws-eu-central-1   │ 2024-05-30T22:14:49Z │
├───────────────────────────┼───────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼──────────────────────┤
│ crystal-stream-23456789   │ staging-web-app           │ aws-us-east-2      │ 2024-05-17T13:47:35Z │
└───────────────────────────┴───────────────────────────┴────────────────────┴──────────────────────┘
```

Additionally, the Neon CLI [set-context](/docs/reference/cli-set-context) command now lets you set an organization context so that you don't have to specify an organization ID when running CLI commands. To learn more, see [Neon CLI commands — set-context](/docs/reference/cli-set-context).

### Postgres extension updates

The following Postgres extensions were updated to a newer version:

| Postgres extension | Old version | New version                      |
| ------------------ | ----------- | -------------------------------- |
| `pg_jsonschema`    | 0.2.0       | 0.3.1                            |
| `pg_graphql`       | 1.4.0       | 1.5.7                            |
| `pgx_ulid`         | 0.1.3       | 0.1.5                            |
| `pg_tiktoken`      | 0.0.1       | 0.0.1 (no version number change) |

If you installed these extensions previously and want to upgrade to the latest version, please refer to [Update an extension version](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions#update-an-extension-version) for instructions.

### New docs navigation

We've revamped the Neon docs sidebar to enhance navigation across our documentation. The new design features a flatter structure, allowing for easier scanning and quicker access to content. Additionally, we've introduced second-level sidebars to accommodate content expansion within various categories.

<video autoPlay playsInline muted loop width="800" height="600">
  <source type="video/mp4" src="/docs/relnotes/new_docs_nav.mp4"/>
</video>

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- In the **Add new compute** and **Edit compute settings** drawers, the **Seconds** option in the **Autosuspend time** drop-down is now hidden when the minimum setting is 60 seconds or more, or if the current setting is already in seconds.
- A better message is displayed in the Neon SQL Editor when a connection is closed due to inactivity. The previous error message, `Terminating connection due to administrator command`, was changed to `The connection was closed due to inactivity. It will automatically reopen when you run your next query`.
- Queries saved to the Neon SQL Editor **History** list are now limited to 9 KB in length. While you can execute longer queries from the SQL Editor, any query exceeding 9 KB will be truncated when saved. A `-- QUERY TRUNCATED` comment is added at the beginning of these queries to indicate truncation. Additionally, if you input a query longer than 9 KB in the SQL Editor, a warning similar to the following will appear: `This query will still run, but the last 1234 characters will be truncated from query history`.
- The **Create new database** option in the **Database** drop-down menu within the **Connection Details** widget has been fixed. Previously, this option was not functioning.
- We updated the Drizzle Studio version that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console. This update addresses issues related to parsing the default value of a `jsonb` column and repeating of column names for columns with the same constraint name.
- Fixed an issue that caused a password-related error when switching between projects in the Neon SQL Editor.
- Optimized the options and selectors at the top of the Neon SQL Editor to better fit smaller screen sizes.
- Corrected an issue that caused a `Something went wrong` error to be briefly displayed after deleting a project from the **Settings** page in the Neon Console.

</details>
