---
description: Neon Vercel integration enhancements and more
---

### Neon Vercel integration enhancements

We've introduced several enhancements to help you manage preview branches created by the Neon Vercel integration:

- There is now a drop-down menu to the **Branches** tab in the **Vercel integration** drawer where you can delete all preview branches or only those marked as `Obsolete`. Obsolete branches are those without an associated git branch. Removing obsolete branches helps avoid using up your storage allowance or hitting branch limits. For more information, see [Manage branches created by the integration](/docs/guides/vercel#manage-branches-created-by-the-integration).
- The integration now supports automatic deletion of obsolete preview branches. You can enable this feature when installing the integration by selecting the **Automatically delete obsolete Neon branches** option. An option will soon be added to the Vercel integration drawer that lets you enable and disable automatic branch deletion for both new and existing integration installations. Automatic branch deletion is disabled by default for existing installations. Automatic branch deletion occurs when the git branch that triggered the branch's creation is deleted.
- We now show a branch creation date for each preview branch listed on the **Branches** tab in the Vercel integration drawer.

### Fixes & improvements

- Corrected an issue that prevented a Free Tier user from creating a new read-write compute for their primary branch after deleting the one created with their Neon project. 
- Updated the visual displayed on the Projects page in the Neon Console when all projects are removed.
- Fixed several UI copy inconsistencies in the Neon Console.
- Adjusted copy and links on the connection details modal displayed after creating a new project.

### What's new in docs?

We have a few new guides for you this week:

- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Django](/docs/guides/django-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Ruby on Rails](/docs/guides/rails-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and SQLAlchemy](/docs/guides/sqlalchemy-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Entity Framework](/docs/guides/entity-migrations)
- [Schema migration with Neon Postgres and Laravel](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/laravel-migrations)

We also have a new [Postgres landing page](/docs/postgres/postgres-intro), where you can access all of our Postgres documentation, inlcluding this optimization guide and query reference:

- [Optimize Postgres query performance](/docs/postgres/query-performance)
- [Postgres query reference](/docs/postgres/query-reference)
