---
title: A reorganized Integrations page, extra storage option for the Launch plan, Vercel integration enhancements, and more
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2024-03-22-console
---

### A reorganized Integrations page

As our list of integrations continues to grow, we've added categorized navigation, making it easier to explore what's offered. Click a category heading and then **Add** or **Request** the integrations you're interested in.

### Extra storage option for the Launch plan

Based on the feedback we've received, Neon's [Launch](/docs/introduction/plans#launch) plan has been enhanced to offer an "extra storage" option. If you require more than the 10 GiB storage allowance included with the Launch plan but aren’t ready for the [Scale](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) plan, you can now purchase additional storage in 2 GiB increments. For a detailed comparison of Neon's pricing plans, please refer to our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page.

### Neon Vercel Integration enhancements

- The [Neon Vercel Integration](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon) now adds a `/preview` prefix to the names of preview branches. You can view preview branches on the **Branches** page in the Neon Console or on the **Vercel integration** drawer, which you can access on the **Integrations** page.
- Improved the sort order of preview branches listed in the **Vercel integration** drawer. The most recently created branches are now listed first.
- Fixed an issue that marked the Vercel deployment status as successful while the preview deployment was still in progress.

### Fixes & improvements

- To make it easier to [share your project](/docs/guides/project-sharing-guide) with other users, we've added a **Sharing** button to the project dashboard. The button is located at the top right corner of the console, next to your profile avatar.
- The Consumption API endpoint is now fully available and no longer in Preview status. You can use this endpoint to get a full list of key consumption metrics for all the projects in your Neon account in a single API request. For more info:
  - [Consumption API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojectsconsumption)
  - [Retrieving metrics for all projects](/docs/guides/partner-billing#retrieving-metrics-for-all-projects)
- We've added a new [Get URI](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getconnectionuri) API endpoint, which you can use to retrieve a database connection string programmatically.
- You are now able to downgrade directly from **Scale** to **Launch** when that fits your usage needs. Previously, you needed to downgrade to the Free Tier first before moving back up to Launch.
- The Neon CLI now offers a Linux ARM64 binary, which you can find [here](https://github.com/neondatabase/neonctl/releases). For Neon CLI installation instructions, see [Neon CLI — Install and connect](/docs/reference/cli-install).
- For the [Neon serverless driver](/docs/serverless/serverless-driver), a cancellation command is now triggered in Postgres for queries over HTTP that exceed the 15-second timeout for long-running queries. Additionally, user-facing error classification names were added to make it easier to identify error types for queries over HTTP.
- Added a **Suggest an integration** button to the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console, where you can share your feedback about the integrations Neon should add next. The button replaces a suggestion card.
- Fixed the **Revoke access** confirmation modal that is displayed when revoking access to a shared project. The modal appeared blank.
- Improved the field validation on the registration form on the Neon **Sign Up** page.
- Fixed an issue that prevented changing the email address of a Neon account.
- Corrected an issue that occurred when accessing Neon as a new user via the Neon CLI. After registering for a Neon account, the registering user was not directed back to the correct page to complete the authentication process.
- Changed the "**Storage**" label on the **Branches** widget and **Branches** page to "**Data size**" to avoid confusion with the **Storage** label on the **Usage** widget. "Data size" refers to your logical data size, while "Storage" is the data size and history for all branches in your project. For more information about _Storage_ in Neon, see [Usage metrics](/docs/introduction/usage-metrics).
