---
description: A reminder to update your Neon CLI version, fixes & improvements
---

### Wrapping up 2024

As 2024 draws to a close, we were mostly focussed on fixes and improvements this past week. But don’t worry — new features are already in development, and exciting updates are just around the corner. We're looking forward to sharing what’s coming in the new year, and we may even have a few interesting announcements before then. Stay tuned!

### Upgrading to the latest Neon CLI version

If you use the [Neon CLI](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/neon-cli), here’s a friendly reminder to upgrade to the latest version. The current version is 2.6.0, and all users should be on a 2.x version. You can check your Neon CLI version with the following command:

```bash
neon --version
2.6.0
```

For upgrade instructions, see [Neon CLI upgrade](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/cli-install#upgrade).

If you use the Neon CLI in CI/CD tools like GitHub Actions, you can safely pin it to `latest`, as we prioritize stability for CI/CD processes. For example, in a GitHub Actions workflow, you can install the latest version with `npm`:

```yaml
- name: Install Neon CLI
  run: npm install -g neonctl@latest
```

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Drizzle Studio update**

  The Drizzle Studio integration that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console has been updated. For the latest improvements and fixes, see the [Neon Drizzle Studio Integration Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-drizzle-studio-changelog/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

- **Console updates**

 - We added a link to the Neon API Reference to the information resources menu in the console.
 - The Support ticket modal in the Neon Console now supports file attachments. Attachments cannot exceed 5 MB in size.
 - Sorting is now available for additional columns in the branches table on the Branches page.
 - The organization account project page now includes an **Integrations** column in the projects table for viewing viewing or adding integrations.
 - Coordinated Universal Time (UTC) date formats are now used for billing period dates in the Neon Console

- **Neon Authorize**

  It just keeps getting better. Drizzle ORM introduced a new with `db.$withAuth` method, offering a more convenient way to include user JWTs in queries to Neon. You can then use Neon Authorize to map it to Postgres RLS.

  ```javascript
  return db
    .$withAuth(authToken)
    .select()
    .from(schema.todos)
    .where(eq(schema.todos.userId, sql`auth.user_id()`))
    .orderBy(asc(schema.todos.insertedAt));
  ```

  Find more examples in our [Neon Authorize tutorial](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/neon-authorize-tutorial).

- **Vercel Native Integration**

  - Users of the native Neon integration in Vercel can now view an **Archive storage** metric on the **Usage** page under the **Storage** tab in the Vercel Dashboard. For more about archive storage in Neon, see [Branch archiving](/docs/guides/branch-archiving).
  - Neon's [IP Allow](/docs/introduction/ip-allow) feature is now available for Vercel-managed organizations. IP Allow is supported on Neon Scale and Business plans.

- **Azure Integration**

  We enabled support for project transfer from Neon personal accounts to Azure-created Neon organizations. Project transfer is only supported if the Neon project was created in an Azure region. For more, see [Transfer Neon projects to an Azure-created Neon organization](/docs/introduction/billing-azure-marketplace#transfer-existing-neon-projects-to-an-azure-created-neon-organization).

- **Neon API**

  Added `204` response definitions for `DELETE` endpoints for scenarios where a branch, database, role, or endpoint does not exist or has already been deleted. A 204 response code indicates a successful operation that does not return content.

- **Fixes**

  - Fixed an issue in the console that prevented an error toast from being returned when either the you are offline or the server os otherwise unreachable. A `Network error` is now returned in such cases.
  - Corrected a usability issue that put the **Project Creation** modal in a error state by default, requiring users to adjust autoscaling settings before creating a project.
  - Resolved an issue where users encountered a confusing error message when attempting to link a Microsoft account that was already logged in with the same email.
  - Fixed a drag-to-zoom failure on **Monitoring** page graphs that occurred when dragging from left to right and releasing the cursor  outside of the graph area.
  - Fixed an issue where a read-write compute could not be added to a branch without an associated compute if another branch in the project had a read-write endpoint.
  - Addressed a `Something went wrong` error in the console related to loading of an organization account.
  - Fixed an issue that prevented **Ctrl+C** query cancellation requests via [passwordless authentication](/docs/connect/passwordless-connect) connections.
  

</details>
