---
description: Fixes and improvements
---

### Fixes & improvements

- Added Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) to the Neon Proxy, enabling the serverless driver to prefer HTTP/2 connections. HTTP/2 allows for better connection reuse and can reduce edge latency for high-concurrency workflows.
- Improved error messaging for connection failures when IP Allow is enabled and the IP address of the connecting client is not on the IP allowlist.
- The [neon_superuser](/docs/manage/roles#the-neonsuperuser-role) now has full privileges on tables and sequences created in the `public` schema and can grant those privileges to other roles. This change ensures that tables and sequences created by the Postgres superuser during extension installation are fully accessible to a `neon_superuser`.
- A connection dropped from the **SQL Editor** while running a query now cancels the query process in Postgres. Previously, the query process would be left running.
- Made minor adjustments to the **Usage** section on the billing page, including changing the way extra usage is displayed for Scale plan accounts. Instead of showing extra usage separately, the displayed limits are increased.
- Fixed issues with the **Branch** selector in the **Connection Details** widget that occurred when switching projects from the project breadcrumb selector.
- Adjusted the behavior of the project breadcrumb selector in the Neon Console to accommodate slow network connections. A "loading" icon is now displayed while the project menu is loaded, and a link to the currently loaded project is displayed until the project menu is ready.
- IP Allow now supports IPv6 addresses.
- The [Get projects](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojects) and [Get shared projects](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listsharedprojects) APIs now fetch all projects when the `search` parameter is used. If a `limit` value is specified it is applied after the fetch to limit displayed results. 
- Users of the Neon Vercel Integration can now select the database and role to use, and whether to create a branch for every preview deployment from the Vercel integration drawer on the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console.
- The Neon Vercel Integration now displays an error message in Deployment details under **Running checks** if you exceed the branch limit for your Neon project. Free Tier users have a limit of 10 branches.  
- Improved the error code and message displayed when a user reaches the compute hour limit for non-primary branch computes.
- Improved the Django `settings.py` connection snippet in the **Connection Details** widget in the Neon Console and added a `.env` connection snippet.
- The **Feedback** form in the Neon Console sidebar can now be accessed via a direct link: [Feedback form](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=feedback). 



