---
description: tbd
---

### GitHub integration

We've opened up a new feature to all users that you can try immediately. Our **GitHub integration** includes a GitHub app that makes it easy to connect your Neon projects to GitHub repos.

This new integration makes it easy to:

- Automatically create and delete database branches in response to pull request activities
- Build and manage GitHub Actions workflows that interact with Neon. To help you get started, we provide a sample workflow that you can customize.

How it works, in a nutshell:

- Install the GitHub App. The integration installs a GitHub App that you'll use to select repositories you want to connect to Neon.
- Set up variables. The integration sets up a Neon API key secret and a Neon project ID variable in the selected GitHub repository.
- Create workflows: You then GitHub Actions to incorporate your database project into your workflow.

To get started, follow the instructions in our [GitHub Integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration) guide.

If you've got feature requests or feedback about what you'd like to see from the Neon GitHub integration, let us know via the [Feedback](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=feedback) form in the Neon Console or our [feedback channel](https://discord.com/channels/1176467419317940276/1176788564890112042) on Discord.

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- [TBD: Update LR guides if FF is enabled] A new **Logical replication** page is now available under **Settings** in the Neon Console. This is where you can enable logical replication for your Neon project. Neon's logical replication feature lets you stream data from Neon to external data platforms and services. For more, see [Get started with logical replication](/docs/guides/logical-replication-guide).
- [TBD: Add Delete account docs] Neon account deletion is now self-serve via a **Delete account** page under **Account settings**.
- For Neon [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) users, we've added banners that appear at the top of the Neon Console to let you know when you've reached 80%, 95%, and 100% of your compute allowance for the current billing period.
- Resolved a problem with the [Neon Vercel Integration](/docs/guides/vercel) where enabling [automatic branch deletion](/docs/guides/vercel#automatic-deletion) resulted in the unintended removal of a preview branch after the branch was renamed via the Neon Console. Please be aware that renaming preview branches created by the Neon Vercel Integration before this release could still result in automatic deletion if that feature is enabled.
- For Neon [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) users, we've added **Data transfer** to the **Billing** page in the Neon Console so that you can easily monitor all of your plan allowances in one place. Data transfer is the total volume of data transferred out of Neon (also referred to as "egress") during a given billing period. Neon does not charge for data transfer, but to 5 GB per month on the Free Plan. For more, see [Data transfer](/docs/introduction/usage-metrics#data-transfer).
- We've updated the Drizzle Studio version that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console. Among other updates, this new version of Drizzle Studio brings the following improvements:
  - Support for materialized views
  - Improved filtering behavior (filtering now occurs when you click **Apply**)
  - The ability to paste a value into a cell without double-clicking
  - Improved styling
  - Support for deletes and updates for tables without a primary key. If there is no primary key, a unique constraint is required. A NULL check is performed if a unique constraint is nullable.
- For Neon [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan) users, we've updated the **Resources remaining widget** on the Project Dashboard. The **Compute time since** metric has been renamed to **Branch compute time**. This metric shows the number of compute hours remaining for branch computes in the current billing period. Neon Free Plan offers an allowance of 5 compute hours per month on branch computes in addition to 24/7 availability for the default branch compute.
- We've added a warning to the **Settings** &#8594; **Storage** page that appears when you select a history retention period greater than 1 day. Your project's history is a log of changes (inserts, updates, and deletes). It enables features like point-in-time restore and time travel connections. However, it can also increase your project's storage, depending on the amount of data changes and how much history you keep. For more, see [Storage](/docs/introduction/usage-metrics#storage).
</details>
