---
description: tbd
---

### Support for pgvector 0.6.0

The `pgvector` extension for vector similarity search in Postgres was updated to a newer version.

| Postgres extension           | Old version   | New version   |
|------------------------------|---------------|---------------|
| `pgvector`                   | 0.5.1         | 0.6.0         |

The new version of `pgvector` adds several HNSW index improvements, including support for parallel index builds. For other updates, refer to the [pgvector changelog](https://github.com/pgvector/pgvector/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md).

If you installed this extension previously and want to upgrade to the latest version, please refer to [Update an extension version](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions#update-an-extension-version) for instructions.

For a complete list of Postgres extensions supported by Neon, see [Postgres extensions](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions).

### IPv6 support coming soon

Neon will soon start accepting IPv6 connections at no extra charge. We will keep supporting IPv4 connections, also at no extra charge.

We'll progressively roll out IPv6 to all our supported regions during February. You shouldn’t experience any downtime or disturbances: if your host is IPv6 enabled and its client library prefers IPv6 by default, your new connections will start using it. No action is required from you. 

If you have any questions, reach out to us in [Discord](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp).

## Support for PgBouncer 1.22.0

The PgBouncer version used by Neon to offer pooled connection support was updated to [version 1.22.0](https://www.pgbouncer.org/changelog.html#pgbouncer-122x). This version of PgBouncer adds support for `DEALLOCATE ALL` and `DISCARD ALL` in transaction mode when `max_prepared_statements` is set to a non-zero value. In Neon, the new version of PgBouncer enables support for protocol-level prepared statements for pooled database connections.

## Support for prepared statements with PgBouncer

Neon now supports protocol-level prepared statements with PgBouncer, which means you can now use prepared statements with pooled connections. Using prepared statements can help boost query performance while providing an added layer of protection against potential SQL injection attacks. To learn more, see [Optimize queries with PgBouncer and prepared statements](/docs/connect/connection-pooling#optimize-queries-with-pgbouncer-and-prepared-statements) in the docs or read the [blog post](tbd).

### Fixes & improvements

- The **Branch** selector in the **Connection Details** widget on the Neon **Dashboard** now has a **Create new branch** option. 
- The **Quickstart** banner that appears at the top of the Neon **Dashboard** for newly created projects now includes commands for creating and listing branches using the [Neon CLI](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/neon-cli).
- Added a **Save changes** button to the **Vercel integration** drawer on the **Integrations** page for Vercel environment variable changes. Previously, changes were saved implicitly without providing confirmation.
- Corrected the globe coordinates for a supported region on the **Project creation** page in the Neon console. 

### Logical replication enhancements

- The [neon_superuser](/docs/manage/roles#the-neonsuperuser-role) role is now a member of the Postgres `pg_create_subscription` role, which allows users with `CREATE` permission on a database to issue `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION`. The `pg_create_subscription` role is only available as of Postgres 16. The `neon_superuser` role in Postgres 14 and 15 can issue `CREATE SUBSCRIPTION` with only `CREATE` permission on the database. This change enables defining a Neon database as a logical replication subscriber. Previously, a Neon database could only be defined as a logical replication publisher.
- `CREATE PUBLICATION my_publication FOR ALL TABLES` syntax is now supported in Neon. Previously, `FOR ALL TABLES` was not supported and multiple tables could only be specified using `CREATE PUBLICATION my_pub FOR TABLE <table1>, <table2>` syntax.
- Updated the documentation link on the **Developer Settings** page (access from your account **Profile**) to link to the [Neon API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getting-started-with-neon-api) documentation instead of [Neon documentation landing page](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction).

### What's new in docs?

To help our users unlock the full potential of Postgres, we're building out our Postgres function documentation. Whether you're a seasoned Postgres user or new to the platform, our new function guides can help you get started.

- [Array](/docs/data-types/array)
- [Boolean](/docs/data-types/boolean)
- [Date and time](/docs/data-types/date-and-time)
- [Character](/docs/data-types/character)
- [JSON](/docs/data-types/json)
- [Decimal](/docs/data-types/decimal)
- [Floating point](/docs/data-types/floating-point)
- [Integer](/docs/data-types/integer)
- [UUID](/docs/data-types/uuid)

#### Deno Deploy guide

Check out our [Deno Deploy guide](/docs/guides/deno) to learn how to Connect a Neon Postgres database to your Deno application.

### From the Neon blog

In case you missed them, be sure to check out our latest blog posts:

- [Using Python & Django with Neon’s Serverless Postgres](https://neon.tech/blog/python-django-and-neons-serverless-postgres)
- [pgvector: 30x Faster Index Build for your Vector Embeddings](https://neon.tech/blog/pgvector-30x-faster-index-build-for-your-vector-embeddings)
- [Build and deploy progressive web apps with Glide and Neon](https://neon.tech/blog/build-and-deploy-progressive-web-apps-with-glide-and-neon)
