---
description: The latest product updates from Neon
---

### More projects on the Free Plan

Our Free plan users told us they needed more projects: we've expanded the project limits from 1 to 10.



### Drag-to-zoom monitoring graphs

We've enhanced the graphs on our **Monitoring** page to support drag-to-zoom. Just click and drag to zoom in on the selected range.

[drag-to-zoom monitoring graphs](/docs/relnotes/drag-to-zoom.png)

### Reminder: Get your ticket for Neon Deploy!

Don't forget to grab your ticket for Neon Deploy to learn how Neon helps developers ship faster with Postgres. The event will take place **October 30th** at **10:00 AM** PT. [Sign up here](https://neon.tech/deploy).

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- The [Delete Project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/deleteproject) API now returns a 404 Not Found response instead of a 200 OK response if the project has already been deleted. This is a potentially breaking change for applications that expect a 200 OK response for all delete operations, regardless of whether a project was actually deleted.
- We've released a new version of the Neon CLI, with the followign updates:
  - Removed the deprecated `set-primary` branch command
  - Removed the deprecated `--allow-list` and `--ip-primary-only` flags from the `project update` command
  - Removed the deprecated `--primary-only` flag from the `ip-allow` command
  - Added empty state messages for the `project list` command
- We updated the **Create support ticket** modal in the Neon Console to include a drop-down menu for selecting a personal account or organization.
- Fixed a lag issue with the **Create support ticket** modal.
- Enabled selecting a shared project in the **Create support ticket** modal account selector.
- Fixed an issue that prevented deleting a branch with a ephemeral compute endpoint that was created for performing a schema diff.
- Fixed an issue with the GitHub integration that prevented information in the integration drawer from being updated after performing an action in the drawer.
- Fixed an issue in the GitHub integration that permitted connecting to the same GitHub repository from different Neon projects, which would overwrite previously configured variables.
- When a collaborator is added as a member of an organization, that user is now removed as a collaborator from projects in the organization. Otherwise, the user would be both a collaborator and a member, which is redundant.

</details>
