---
description: tbd 
---
### New Consumption API for accounts

To help Scale plan users get granular consumption metrics across all the projects in their account, we've added new endpoint dedicated to the task:

```bash
https://console.neon.tech/api/v2/consumption_history/account
```

Metrics are available starting March 1st, 2024 for existing Scale plan users. To retrieve metrics, you need to specify a `from` and `to` parameter to choose your level of granularity:




### Improved navigation for Project pages

We've improved the navigation between the different Project pages in the Neon Console.

- The sidebar navigation is re-ordered to help you move between pages more intuitively.
- We moved **Operations** from a dedicated page in the Neon Console to a new tab on the **Monitoring** page.

image

Notice that the **Compute** column is now made up of clickable links, letting you open the side drawer to edit any endpoint's compute settings from this view.

Expect to see more observability-related tabs appear on the **Monitoring** page in upcoming releases.

### Fixes & improvements

- We've improved the copy functionality for connection strings. For safety, your password is not revealed directly in the browser but is replaced with `****`. Previously, when you copied from the window text it copied the obscured password.  Now, when you manually copy the connection string from the UI, the actual password is included in the clipboard. Using the dedicated Copy button in the console continues to work as expected: perfectly!


### What's new in docs?



### stashed items


### Drizzle Studio in the Neon Console

We've integrated Drizzle Studio into the Neon Console, which lets you browse, add, update, and delete records from directly within the Neon Console. The Drizzle Studio integration also supports downloading data in `.json` and `.csv` file formats. You can access the Drizzle Studio integration from sidebar in the Neon console.

- 
