---
description: tbd
---

### Fixes & improvements

- The selected branch and database are now preserved when moving between the **SQL Editor** and the **Tables** page in the Neon Console.
- Fixed an issue that prevented creating a new branch in the Neon Console using a Safari browser when selecting a specific date and time as the branch creation point. The issue resulted in an `Invalid Date` error.
- Fixed an issue in the Neon Console that caused the history retention setting for a shared project to differ from the project owner's history retention setting.
- [NOT SEEING THIS] Added an **Endpoint Inactive** legend item to the **CPU** and **Database Size** charts on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. This legend item highlights periods when the compute endpoint was suspended, indicating no available data for those times.
- Added a system status indicator to the Neon Console pager header, next to the alerts icon. System status was previously displayed in the alerts menu where it was not immediately visible.
- Fixed an issue in the Neon Vercel Integration to better handle errors reported for variables set by the integration that already exist in Vercel. The issue caused preview deployment failures.
- Added a `psql -h pg.neon.tech` connection snippet to the **Connection Details** widget. Instead of supplying a connection string when connecting with `psql`, you can use `psql -h pg.neon.tech` at the command line to launch a browser-based authentication flow.
- Fixed an issue on the RAM and CPU charts on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. The verticle axis scale was not displayed properly.
