---
description: The latest product updates from Neon
---

### Branch archiving

On the Free plan, Neon now automatically archives branches that are that are **older than 14 days** and **have not been accessed for the past 24 hours**. No action is required to unarchive a branch. It happens quickly and automatically when you connect to an archived branch, query it, or performing some other action that accesses the branch.

Currently, automatic archiving of inactive branches is only enabled on the Free Plan. It will be introduced on paid plans at a later date, where archiving of inactive branches to cost-efficient archive storage will help reduce storage costs.

To learn more, see [Branch archiving](/docs/guides/branch-archiving).

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Contact support form improvements**:

  You can now attach files along with your problem description when requesting help from Neon support. File size limit is 50 MB and we support the following file types:

  - PDF (. pdf)
  - PNG (. png)
  - JPEG (. jpeg)
  - GIF (. gif)
  - Text (. txt)

- **More local disk space for Neon computes**

  We increased the local disk space allocation for Neon computes, which will now receive 15 GiB x maximum vCPU setting with a minimum of 20 GiB. This change ensures optimal handling of temporary data, query operations, and maintenance tasks in Postgres.

- **Neon Console enhancements**

- **Neon API changes**

We've introduced several new endpoints for managing Neon Organizations. The new endpoints include:

- [Get organization details](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getorganization)
- [Get organization members](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getorganizationmembers)
- [Get organization member details](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getorganizationmember)
- [Get organization invitation details](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getorganizationinvitations)
- [Create organizations invitations](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createorganizationinvitations)

</details>
