---
description: The latest product updates from Neon
---

### Neon is Now Available as an Azure Native Integration

Our collaboration with Microsoft continues to grow. Earlier this week we introduced [Neon as an Azure Native Integration](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/en-us/marketplace/apps/neon1722366567200.neon_serverless_postgres_azure_prod?tab=Overview), allowing developers to provision databases directly from their Azure portal.

If your company uses Azure, it’s now easier than ever to get started with Neon. With the native integration:

- You are able to provision and manage Neon organizations directly within Azure, and you can also use the Azure CLI and SDK.
- You can access Neon using your Microsoft credentials, simplifying security and compliance.
- Neon is included in your Azure bill.

To learn more, see [Neon on Azure](https://neon.tech/docs/manage/azures).

## New Azure regions

We’ve added support for two new Azure regions:

- **Azure Germany West Central** (Frankfurt) &mdash; `azure-gwc`
- **Azure West US 3** (Arizona) &mdash; `azure-westus3`

For a full list of regions supported by Neon, see [Regions](/docs/introduction/regions).

## Archive storage on paid plans

## No more peak storage

## Larger compute sizes are here

We’ve added support for larger compute sizes:
- Neon's autoscaling feature can now supports a maximum setting of **16 vCPUs**. When the maximum is 10 vCPUs or more, it cannot exceed 8 times the minimum.
- Neon's Business and Enterprise plans now support fixed compute sizes, Neon now supports fixed computes sizes up to **56 vCPUs**. Autoscaling is not supported for compute sizes larger than 16 vCPU.

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Neon Serverless Driver**

  For the latest improvements and fixes for the Neon Serverless Driver, refer to the [Neon Serverless Driver Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/serverless/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

- **Console updates**

  - We've simplified the **Edit compute drawer** where you define compute settings where you specify your autoscaling and scale to zero settings.
  - The **Monitoring** page graphs now display data in the local timezone instead of Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). We also fixed an issue that allowed selecting a future date when setting a custom period on the Monitoring page.
  - You can now sort columns in the branches table on the **Branches** page in the Neon Console. Default and protected branches are always listed first. Additionally, the table is now fully accessible via keyboard navigation, allowing you to tab through table cells and rows.
  
- **Neon Authorize**

  [Neon Authorize](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/neon-authorize) now supports verifying an `aud` (audience) claim in JWTs. This feature limits access to specific applications or services. For authentication providers like Firebase Auth and GCP Cloud Identity, Neon Authorize requires defining an intended audience because these providers use the same JWKS URL across all projects.

  You can configure the intended audience using the Neon Authorize UI or the [Neon Authorize API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/addprojectjwks).

  This enhancement extends Neon Authorize support to both **Firebase Auth** and **GCP Cloud Identity**. For a list of supported authentication providers, see [Supported providers](/docs/guides/neon-authorize#supported-providers).

- **Fixes**

  - Resolved an issue that blocked Schema Diff operations when other project operations were in progress. Schema Diff operations are now serialized to prevent concurrency errors.
  - Improved the error message displayed by the text-to-SQL AI feature in the Neon SQL Editor when it fails to fetch the database schema.
  - Resolved inconsistencies in the number of usage metrics and project allowances displayed on the **Billing** page in the Neon Console.

- **Neon API updates**

  - Removed the deprecated `primary_branch_only` property from the [Create project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createproject) and [Update project](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/updateproject) endpoints.
  - The `branch_id` field in the [Update compute endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/updateprojectendpoint) method has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
  - Added an `archived` property to the branch object in the [Create branch](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/createprojectbranch) endpoint. Setting the value to true creates a branch directly in [archive storage](/docs/introduction/architecture-overview#archive-storage).
  
- **Vercel Native Integration** 

  History retention and logical replication settings are now configurable in Neon projects created in Vercel-created organizations in the Neon Console. Previously, you could not modify those settings in Neon or Vercel.

- **Vercel Previews Integration** 

  The Vercel Previews Integration drawer now lists connected Vercel projects in a more compact table view when there are more than three connected projects. 
  






</details>
