---
description: Local File Cache (LFC) statistics, pg_partman extension support, and more
---

### Local File Cache (LFC) statistics and working set size function

You can now view Local File Cache (LFC) statistics for your Neon compute. The statistics include a cache hit ratio, which can help you determine if your data is being accessed from memory or the Neon storage layer.

The Local File Cache (LFC) is a layer of caching that stores frequently accessed data in the local memory of your Neon compute instance. The cache helps to reduce latency and improve query performance by minimizing the need to fetch data from the Neon storage layer. The LFC acts as an add-on or extension of Postgres [shared buffers](#shared-buffers). In Neon, the `shared_buffers` setting is always 128 MB, regardless of compute size. The LFC extends cache memory up to 50% of your compute's RAM.

Local File Cache (LFC) statistics are exposed through a `neon_stat_file_cache view`, which you access by installing the `neon` extension.

```sql
CREATE EXTENSION neon;
```

You can run the following query to view statistics:

```sql
SELECT * FROM neon.neon_stat_file_cache;
 file_cache_misses | file_cache_hits | file_cache_used | file_cache_writes | file_cache_hit_ratio  
-------------------+-----------------+-----------------+-------------------+----------------------
           2133643 |       108999742 |             607 |          10767410 |                98.08
```

You can also use `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` with the `FILECACHE` option to view LFC cache hit and miss data.

Additionally, the `neon` extension now provides an `approximate_working_set_size()` function that can be used to estimate your working set size. Ideally, your working set should fit in your computes memory.  

For more information, see [The neon extension](https://neon.tech/docs/extensions/neon). To learn how the LFC cache hit ratio and `approximate_working_set_size()` function can help you right-size your compute, see [How to size your compute](/docs/manage/endpoints#how-to-size-your-compute).

### PostgreSQL Partition Manager extension

We added support for the [pg_partman](https://github.com/pgpartman/pg_partman) Postgres extension, which lets you to create and manage time-based and number-based table partition sets.

### Fixes & improvements

- To prevent storage bloat when using logical replication, **Neon now automatically removes _inactive_ replication slots after a period of time if there are other _active_ replication slots**. If you have or intend on having more than one replication slot, please see [Unused replication slots](#unused-replication-slots) to learn more.
- Updated the version of [PgBouncer to 1.22.1](https://www.pgbouncer.org/2024/03/pgbouncer-1-22-1). Neon uses PgBouncer to provide support for connection pooling.
- Removed a redundant **Close** button from the **Edit compute endpoint** drawer on the Free Tier.
- Fixed an issue that caused project creation limits to be ignored when creating a new project before the previous project creation process was finished.
- Fixed an issue that permitted sharing a project with the project owner.

