---
description: The few fixes and improvements. Saving the big news for Monday, April 15th.
---

### Fixes & improvements

- Based on Neon user feedback, we've changed the **Storage** metric on the **Billing** page in the Neon Console to display the current total storage size across all your projects and branches. Previously, the **Storage** metric reported the peak storage size for the current billing period.
- You can now access the documentation for several integrations directly from the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console. A **Read** button, now available on several integration cards, opens a documentation side drawer where you can read about how to integrate the selected platform or service with Neon. 
- If you previously signed up for Neon using your Hasura account and now want to use your personal email — you can make this change under **Profile → Account Settings → Personal Information**, or by following this direct link: [change email](https://console.neon.tech/app/settings/profile?modal=change_email). Changing your email unlinks your existing social account.
- Added a new [Restart endpoint](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/restartprojectendpoint) to the Neon API. This method suspends the specified compute endpoint and restarts it immediately.
- Fixed an issue that prevented preview branches from being shown on the Neon Vercel Integration drawer in the Neon Console.
- Added an alert for the Neon Vercel Integration for older Neon projects that do not store role passwords. The integration is not compatible with these older projects.
- Fixed an error message on the branch creation page for the **Include data up to** time selector. The date format in the error message was incorrect.
