---
description: Neon Vercel Integration enhancements, fixes, and improvements
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2024-03-01-console
---

### Fixes & improvements

- The [Neon Vercel Integration](/docs/guides/vercel) now displays a message on the **Deployment Details** page in Vercel under **Running checks** if you exceed the branch limit for your Neon project.
- Added Application-Layer Protocol Negotiation (ALPN) to the Neon Proxy, enabling the serverless driver to prefer HTTP/2 connections.
- The [IP Allow](/docs/introduction/ip-allow) feature now supports specifying IPv6 addresses.
- Improved error messaging for connection failures when [IP Allow](/docs/introduction/ip-allow) is enabled and the IP address of the connecting client is not on the allowlist.
- The [neon_superuser](/docs/manage/roles#the-neonsuperuser-role) role now has full privileges on tables and sequences created in the `public` schema and can grant those privileges to other roles. This change ensures that tables and sequences created under a Postgres superuser role during extension installation are fully accessible to a `neon_superuser`.
- A connection dropped by the [Neon SQL Editor](/docs/get-started-with-neon/query-with-neon-sql-editor) while running a query now cancels the query process in Postgres. Previously, the query process was left running.
- Adjusted the **Usage** section on the [Billing](https://console.neon.tech/app/billing#usage) page, including changing the way extra usage is displayed for [Scale plan](/docs/introduction/plans#scale) accounts. Instead of showing extra usage separately, the displayed limits are increased.
- The [Get projects](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojects) and [Get shared projects](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listsharedprojects) APIs now fetch all projects when using the `search` parameter. If a `limit` value is specified, it is applied after the fetch to limit displayed results.
- Improved the error code and message displayed when a user reaches the compute-hour limit for non-default branch computes.
- Fixed issues with the **Branch** selector in the **Connection Details** widget that occurred when switching projects using the project breadcrumb selector.
- Adjusted the behavior of the project breadcrumb selector in the Neon Console to accommodate slow network connections. A "loading" icon is now displayed while the project menu is loaded, and a link to the currently loaded project is displayed until the project menu is ready.
- Improved the Django `settings.py` connection snippet and added a `.env` connection snippet to the **Connection Details** widget in the Neon Console.
- The **Feedback** link found in the sidebar of the Neon Console can now be accessed via a [direct link](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects?modal=feedback), which we've incorporated into the documentation and elsewhere.
