---
description: Fixes & improvements, new docs, CDC with Postgres and Airbyte, building a custom ChatGPT
redirectFrom:
  - /docs/changelog/2024-01-12-console
---

### Fixes & improvements

- The [Neon CLI](/docs/reference/neon-cli) now supports [get](/docs/reference/cli-branches#get) operations for branches with numeric names. Previously, only string values were supported.
- Corrected the [Neon CLI](/docs/reference/neon-cli) package name that appears in **Quickstart** banner on the Neon **Dashboard**. The package name shown in the Windows and Linux installation commands was incorrect.
- The [neon_superuser](/docs/manage/roles#the-neonsuperuser-role) role is now able to execute the `pg_stat_statements_reset()` function that is part of the `pg_stat_statements` extension. This function discards statistics gathered so far by `pg_stat_statements`. Roles created in the Neon console, CLI, or API, including the default role created with each Neon project, are granted membership in the `neon_superuser` role. Previously, this function could only be run with a Postgres superuser role, which is restricted in Neon. To make this enhancement available, drop and recreate the `pg_stat_statements` extension. See [Install an extension](/docs/extensions/pg-extensions#install-an-extension).
- For logical replication, the PostgreSQL `max_slot_wal_keep_size` is now set to 1 GB, limiting the maximum size of WAL files that replication slots are allowed to retain in the `pg_wal` directory. This is a temporary limit that will be removed in a future release. The limit avoids an accumulation of WAL data at the publisher due to a lagging subscriber, which could cause a slow compute start.
- Added a **Vercel integration** card to the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console.
- Fixed the **Cancel** action in card drawers on the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console. When clicking **Cancel**, card drawers did not close.

To follow Neon storage and compute releases in GitHub, see [Releases](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon/releases).

### What's new in docs?

- Check out our new guide that describes how to [replicate data from Neon with Fivetran](/docs/guides/logical-replication-fivetran).
- Want to better understand how Neon's project billing works? We've added a real-world example of a generative AI project with 80,000 daily active users that walks you through estimating a monthly bill. See [Sample billing](/docs/introduction/billing-sample).
- Find a typo in the Neon docs? Is there a section that's hard to understand? Notice that a certain topic is missing? The Neon docs are open-source, and contributions are welcome. See our [Documentation Contribution Guide](/docs/community/contribution-guide) for details.

### From the Neon Blog

In case you missed them, be sure to check out our latest posts.

- **Logical Replication and CDC in PostgreSQL with Airbyte**

  Learn how to synchronize your PostgreSQL and Airbyte data in this community-contributed blog post by Jacob Prall, Senior Developer Advocate at @Airbyte:

  [A Guide to Logical Replication and CDC in PostgreSQL with Airbyte](https://neon.tech/blog/a-guide-to-logical-replication-and-cdc-in-postgresql-with-airbyte)

- **Publish a custom ChatGPT**

  Learn how to create and publish a custom ChatGPT with this post from Peter Bendel, Postgres Performance Engineer @Neon, and Raouf Chebri
  Developer Advocate @Neon:

  [OpenAI’s GPT Store is live: Create and Publish a custom Postgres GPT Expert](https://neon.tech/blog/openais-gpt-store-is-live-create-and-publish-a-custom-postgres-gpt-expert)
