---
description: The latest product updates from Neon
---

### Neon Copilot Extension

The [Neon Database Copilot Extension](https://github.com/marketplace/neon-database) is now available in the GitHub Marketplace. This extension makes it easier to configure Neon for your repository by providing chat-based access to the latest Neon documentation with repository context.

Chat with curated Neon database documentation directly in GitHub Copilot and get answers to common questions like:

- _How to create a project?_
- _How can I get started with the Neon API?_
- _Integrate the Neon API into my GitHub repository._

Coming soon, you'll be able to directly interact with Neon endpoints by simply asking questions. Additionally, new tools will enable you to create Neon databases directly from the chat interface.

**Setup Instructions:**

1. Install the extension.
2. Type `@neondatabase` in the chat to start interacting (participant setup may take a few minutes).

### Added support for the `pg_repack` extension

The `pg_repack` extension is now available in Neon. This extension helps remove bloat from tables and indexes while optionally restoring the physical order of clustered indexes — all without requiring an exclusive lock during processing.

For usage details, refer to the [pg_repack documentation](https://reorg.github.io/pg_repack/).

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Drizzle Studio update**

  The Drizzle Studio integration that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console has been updated. For the latest improvements and fixes, see the [Neon Drizzle Studio Integration Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-drizzle-studio-changelog/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

- **Console updates**

  Adjusted billing period start dates in the console to align with the beginning of the current month. Previously, timezone differences could cause the start date to display as the last day of the previous month.

- **Virtual Private Networking**

  Fixed an issue where invalid VPC endpoint IDs would not be deleted. Invalid endpoint IDs are now transitioned to a deleted state after 24 hours and automatically removed at a later date.

- **Neon API**

- **Fixes**

  - tbd

</details>
