---
description: tbd
---

### Autoscaling is now available on the Free Tier

Neon's Autoscaling feature is now available on our Free plan, which lets you scale your computes from 0.25 vCPU with 1 GB of RAM up to 2 vCPU with 8 GB of RAM.

Neon's Autoscaling feature dynamically adjusts the amount of compute resources allocated to a Neon compute in response to the current load, eliminating the need for manual intervention.

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- The [Reset a Neon branch](https://github.com/neondatabase/reset-branch-action) GitHub Action, which resets a child branch with the latest data from its parent branch, now outputs connection string values. New outputs include:
  - `branch_id`: The ID of the newly reset branch.
  - `db_url`: Database connection string for the branch after the reset.
  - `db_url_with_pooler`: The pooled database connection string for the branch after the reset.
  - `host`: The branch host after the reset.
  - `host_with_pooler`: The branch host with pooling after the reset.
  - `password`: The password for connecting to the branch database after the reset.
- We've revamped the **Usage** widget on the Project Dashboard for Free Plan users, making it easier than ever to monitor your metrics. Now prominently positioned at the top of the dashboard, the **Usage** widget provides an at-a-glance view of your monthly totals for Storage, Compute, Branch compute, and Branches. For an overview of Neon Free Plan allowances, please see [Free Plan](/docs/introduction/plans#free-plan).
- We now support self-serve account deletion should you need to remove your Neon account for any reason. See [Delete your account](/docs/manage/accounts#delete-your-account) for details.

</details>
