---
description: tbd 
---
### stashed items

### Drizzle Studio in the Neon Console

We've integrated Drizzle Studio into the Neon Console, which lets you browse, add, update, and delete records from directly within the Neon Console. The Drizzle Studio integration also supports downloading data in `.json` and `.csv` file formats. You can access the Drizzle Studio integration from sidebar in the Neon console.

### Export your data to CSV, JSON and XLSX from the Neon SQL Editor

The Neon SQL Editor now supports exporting your data to CSV, JSON and XLSX formats. 

### Fixes & improvements

- To make it even easier to try Neon, we've removed the **First Name**, **Last Name**, and **Password confirmation** fields from the Neon **Sign Up** page. If you're signing up with an email account, only your email address is required.
- Fixed an issue that prevented the current storage usage from being displayed immediately when entering a new billing period, making it appear that storage usage had been reset to zero.
- Adjusted the location of Quickstart in the Neon Console.
- The Neon CLI `connection-string` command now generates a connection URI with a `postgresql://` scheme designator instead of the shorter `postgres://` designator. While both designators are [valid](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS), we have found the longer version to be more widely supported.
- [not yet merged] Error information was improved for HTTP fetch queries using the [Neon serverless driver](/docs/serverless/serverless-driver). For a log of the latest updates to Neon's serverless driver, you can also refer to the [Neon serverless driver changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/serverless/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
