---
description: tbd
---

### This week’s changelog – Live from Lisbon!

Our team is offsite this week in the beautiful city of Lisbon, planning what’s next for Neon as we close out an exciting Q3 and start looking forward to the next quarter and beyond. It's been an incredible opportunity to reconnect with colleagues, welcome new team members, meet Neon customers, and collaborate on the next phase of Neon's journey.

While we're enjoying the chance to meet face-to-face, it has been a quieter week on the delivery front, which is a good opportunity to recap of some of the key items we released over the past few months, in case you missed them:

- **A new Business plan**: Offers 500 GiB of storage and 1,000 compute hours, with potential cost savings for customers needing more storage than offered by our Scale plan. Learn more on our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) and [Plans](/docs/introduction/plans) pages.
- **Inbound Logical Replication**: Enables low-downtime migrations to Neon, making it easy to use Neon as a development environment with features like branching and [GitHub integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration), and supports migrations from other providers and between Neon projects. Check out our guides on [Replicating Data to Neon](/docs/guides/logical-replication-guide#replicate-data-to-neon) and [Project-to-Project Replication](/docs/guides/logical-replication-neon-to-neon).
- **Organizations**: Now available for Early Access users. Create and manage your organization's projects and teams with ease. Join our [Early Access Program](https://console.neon.tech/app/settings/early-access) and refer to the [Organizations docs](/docs/manage/organizations) for more information.
- **Autoscaling GA**: Neon's Autoscaling feature is now generally available, automatically adjusting resources as needed. Read the announcement [here](https://neon.tech/blog/neon-autoscaling-is-generally-available) and explore the [Autoscaling docs](/docs/introduction/autoscaling).
- **Autoscaling on Free Plan**: Free Plan users can now experience Neon's Autoscaling, within reasonable limits. Learn more in the [Autoscaling Guide](/docs/guides/autoscaling-guide).

And the quarter is not quite finished yet. For a peak at what we'll be delivering next, checkout the [Neon roadmap](/docs/introduction/roadmap).

You can expect to see some additions there soon as we wrap up our Q4 planning. Stay tuned! 

We do have a few updates this week, which you can check out below.

<details>
<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- Resolved an issue in the Neon Console where a banner incorrectly indicated that the monthly storage limit was reached or nearly reached after a project had been deleted.
- Improved the information provided on the **Create new branch** page and **Reset branch** modals.
- The **Created by** column on the **Branches** page in the Neon Console now displays the creation source for branches created via GitHub or the [Neon Vercel Integration](/docs/guides/vercel#add-the-neon-vercel-integration) when BitBucket or GitHub is used as the source repository. Hovering over the creation source will trigger a pop-up that provides links to an associated preview, repository, or code branch, where applicable.
- Improved the information about history retention provided on the **Settings** &#8594; **Storage** page in the Neon Console.
- Improved how data is displayed in the **Replication delay bytes** and **Replication delay seconds** graphs on the **Monitoring** page in the Neon Console. The line segment was not displayed properly.



</details>
