---
description: tbd
---

### Fixes & improvements

From 05-10 release that did not make it:
- Fixed an issue that prevented the current endpoint status from displaying properly in the Neon Console.
- Added validation for _Autosuspend_ minimum settings. Each of [Neon's plans](https://neon.tech/docs/introduction/plans) has a different minimum setting for the Autosuspend feature. For details, see [Autosuspend limits](/docs/guides/auto-suspend-guide#autosuspend-limits).
- Auth0, Clerk, Okta, Sequin cards on the **Integrations** page in the Neon Console are now linked to our documentation for those platforms. Clicking on the **Read** button on the integration card opens a documentation drawer.
- Fixed an issue in the **SQL Editor** that caused it to display a `Ready` status on page load when the editor was not yet connected. The editor now displays a valid `Connected` or `Ready to connect` status.
- Fixed an issue that caused changes made in the **Edit compute endpoint** drawer accessed from the **Monitoring** widget to disappear after closing and reopening the drawer.
- Fixed an issue with the password reveal functionality in the **Connection Details** widget.
- - The Neon CLI `connection-string` command and Neon API [Get connection URI](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getconnectionuri) method now generate a connection URI with a `postgresql://` scheme designator instead of the shorter `postgres://` designator. While both designators are [valid](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-connect.html#LIBPQ-CONNSTRING-URIS), we have found the longer version to be more widely supported.

### stashed items

### Drizzle Studio in the Neon Console

We've integrated Drizzle Studio into the Neon Console, which lets you browse, add, update, and delete records from directly within the Neon Console. The Drizzle Studio integration also supports downloading data in `.json` and `.csv` file formats. You can access the Drizzle Studio integration from sidebar in the Neon console.