---
description: New connection limits for autoscaling users, a higher PgBouncer default_pool_size setting, Neon for Agents
---

### New connection limits for autoscaling users

In Postgres, the `max_connections` setting determines the maximum number of concurrent client connections the database server can handle. In Neon, this setting is automatically adjusted based on your compute size. With Neon's autoscaling feature, **`max_connections` is now determined by your maximum compute size** instead of your minimum compute size.

This update significantly increases connection limits. For example, the following compute sizes support these connection limits: 

- 2 CU = 901 max connections  
- 8 CU = 3604 max connections  

Previously, a 2 CU ↔ 8 CU autoscaling configuration was capped at 901 connections. Now, the same configuration supports up to 3604 connections.

### Higher PgBouncer default_pool_size setting

Neon supports connection pooling using [PgBouncer](https://www.pgbouncer.org/). In Neon's PgBouncer configuration, the `default_pool_size` setting was previously set to `64`, regardless of your compute size. This meant that the number of POstgres connections was limited to 64 per user/database pair. This setting is now defined as `default_pool_size=0.9 * max_connections`, significantly increasing the maximum number of concurrent Postgres connections. For example, on an 8 CU compute with a `max_connections` limit of 3604, the `default_pool_size` setting increases from 64 to 3243 (0.9 * 3604).

### Neon is now available on AgentStack

Neon is now available as tool for agents written using the [AgentStack](https://github.com/AgentOps-AI/AgentStack) framework. The Neon tool allow agents to instantly create ephemeral or long-lived Postgres instances for storing structured data. You can explore the implementation of Neon tool in the [neon_tool.py](https://github.com/AgentOps-AI/AgentStack/blob/main/agentstack/templates/crewai/tools/neon_tool.py) template file in the AgentStack repo.

### Neon is now available on Composio

Neon is now available as a tool on [Composio](https://composio.dev/), letting you integrate Neon with LLMs & AI agents via function calls to [Neon's API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getting-started-with-neon-api).

### Neon Auth.js adapter

We've recently introduced an Auth.js adapter for Neon, which enables storing user and session data in your Neon database. For adapter installation and setup instructions, see [Neon Adapter](https://authjs.dev/getting-started/adapters/neon) in the Auth.js docs.

### New default Postgres version

Postgres 17 is now the default for newly created Neon projects. Neon continues to support Postgres 14, 15, and 16.

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Drizzle Studio update**

  The Drizzle Studio integration that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console has been updated. For the latest improvements and fixes, see the [Neon Drizzle Studio Integration Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-drizzle-studio-changelog/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

- **Console updates**

  Adjusted billing period start dates in the console to align with the beginning of the current month. Previously, timezone differences could cause the start date to display as the last day of the previous month.

- **Virtual Private Networking**

  Fixed an issue where invalid VPC endpoint IDs would not be deleted. Invalid endpoint IDs are now transitioned to a deleted state after 24 hours and automatically removed at a later date.

- **Neon API**

- The [List branches](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/listprojectbranches) endpoint now supports sorting and pagination with the addition of `sort_by`, `sort_order`, `limit`, and `cursor` query parameters. The `sorted by` options include `updated_at`, `created_at`, or `name`, and `sort_order` options include `asc` and `desc`. After an initial call, pagination support lets you list the next or previous number of branches specified by the `limit` parameter.
- Added a new [List running operations](tbd) endpoint, which retrieves a list of all running operations for the specified Neon project.

- **Neon API Client**

  The [TypeScript SDK for the Neon API](https://neon.tech/docs/reference/typescript-sdk) was updated to a new version (1.11.4). The new version adds support for creating organization API keys.

- **Neon CLI**

  For the latest Neon CLI updates, you can always refer to the [Neon CLI release page](https://github.com/neondatabase/neonctl/releases).

- **Logical Replication**

  Before dropping a database, Neon now drops any logical replication subscriptions defined in the database.

- **Fixes**

  - Fixed an issue that permitted installing the Neon GitHub integration for organizations or personal accounts where the integration was already installed.

</details>
