---
title: Neon serverless driver GA 
---

## Neon serverless driver is now generally available (GA)

The [Neon serverless driver](https://github.com/neondatabase/serverless) for JavaScript/TypeScript has reached version 1.0.0 and is now generally available! Built for environments like Vercel Functions, Cloudflare Workers, and even browsers, the driver carries SQL over HTTP or WebSockets — no raw TCP required.

This GA release brings a cleaner, more maintainable codebase, stronger SQL injection safeguards, support for composable tagged-template queries, and better performance when inserting binary data over HTTP.

**What you need to know about the 1.0.0 GA release:**

- It requires **Node.js v19 or later**.
- It includes a **breaking change** but only if you're calling the HTTP query template function as a conventional function. The first usage shown below remains safe and supported. However, the second usage is an SQL injection risk (notice the parentheses) and is no longer permitted — it now throws an error. You'll need to update your app if you use it. 

    ```javascript
    // this usage remains safe and supported
    const resultA = await sql`SELECT * FROM table WHERE id = ${id}`;
    // this usage is not safe and now throws an error
    const resultB = await sql(`SELECT * FROM table WHERE id = ${id}`);
    ```

For more about these changes and others in the 1.0.0 GA release, please see the [1.0.0 release notes](https://github.com/neondatabase/serverless/pull/149) or read the [blog post](https://neon.tech/blog/serverless-driver-1-0).

<details>

<summary>**Fixes & improvements**</summary>

- **Neon Console**

- **Drizzle Studio update**

    We updated the Drizzle Studio integration that powers the **Tables** page in the Neon Console to version 1.0.19. For the latest improvements and fixes, see the [Neon Drizzle Studio Integration Changelog](https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-drizzle-studio-changelog/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

</details>
