content/docs/guides/branching-github-actions.md, before:

---
title: Automate branching with GitHub Actions
subtitle: Create and delete branches with GitHub Actions
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-25T14:30:10.287Z'
---

Neon provides the following GitHub Actions for working with Neon branches, which you can add to your CI workflows:

- [Create branch action](#create-branch-action)
- [Delete branch action](#delete-branch-action)
- [Reset from parent action](#reset-from-parent-action)
- [Schema Diff action](#schema-diff-action)

<Admonition type="tip">
Neon supports a GitHub integration that connects your Neon project to a GitHub repository. The integration automatically configures a `NEON_API_KEY` secret and `PROJECT_ID` variable in your GitHub repository and provides a sample GitHub Actions workflow that utilizes Neon's GitHub Actions. See [Neon GitHub integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration) for more.
</Admonition>

## Create branch action

This GitHub Action creates a new branch in your Neon project.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Create Branch Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-create-branch-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example creates a branch based on the specified parent branch:

```yaml
name: Create Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Create a Neon Branch 🚀
jobs:
  Create-Neon-Branch:
  steps:
    - uses: neondatabase/create-branch-action@v5
      id: create-branch
      with:
        project_id: rapid-haze-373089
        # optional (defaults to your project's default branch)
        parent: dev
        # optional (defaults to neondb)
        database: my-database
        branch_name: from_action_reusable
        username: db_user_for_url
        api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
    - run: echo db_url ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url }}
    - run: echo host ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host }}
    - run: echo branch_id ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The project id'
  branch_name:
    required: false
    description: 'The branch name'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key'
    required: true
  username:
    description: 'The db role name'
    required: true
  database:
    description: 'The database name'
    default: neondb
  prisma:
    description: 'Use prisma or not'
    default: 'false'
  parent:
    description: 'The parent branch name or id or LSN or timestamp. By default the primary branch is used'
  suspend_timeout:
    description: >
      Duration of inactivity in seconds after which the compute endpoint is
      For more information, see [Auto-suspend configuration](https://neon.tech/docs/manage/endpoints#auto-suspend-configuration).
    default: '0'
  ssl:
    description: >
      Add sslmode to the connection string. Supported values are: "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "omit".
    default: 'require'
```

### Outputs

```yaml
outputs:
  db_url:
    description: 'New branch DATABASE_URL'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url }}
  db_url_with_pooler:
    description: 'New branch DATABASE_URL with pooling enabled'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url_with_pooler }}
  host:
    description: 'New branch host'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host }}
  host_with_pooler:
    description: 'New branch host with pooling enabled'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host_with_pooler }}
  branch_id:
    description: 'New branch id'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
  password:
    description: 'Password for connecting to the new branch database with the input username'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.password }}
```

## Delete branch action

This GitHub Action deletes a branch from your Neon project.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Delete Branch](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-delete-branch).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example deletes a branch with the `br-long-forest-224191` branch ID from a Neon project with the project ID `rapid-haze-373089` when a pull request is merged.

```yaml
name: Delete Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Delete a Neon Branch 🚀
on: [push]
jobs:
  delete-neon-branch:
    steps:
      uses: neondatabase/delete-branch-action@v3
      with:
        project_id: rapid-haze-373089
        branch: br-long-forest-224191
        api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The Neon project id'
  branch_id:
    description: 'The Neon branch id'
    deprecationMessage: 'The `branch_id` input is deprecated in favor of `branch`'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key, read more at https://neon.tech/docs/manage/api-keys'
    required: true
  branch:
    description: 'The Neon branch name or id'
```

### Outputs

This Action has no outputs.

## Reset from parent action

This GitHub Action resets a child branch with the latest data from its parent branch.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Reset Branch Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-reset-branch-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example demonstrates how to reset a branch in your Neon project:

```yaml
name: Reset Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Reset a Neon Branch 🚀
jobs:
  Reset-Neon-Branch:
    steps:
      - uses: neondatabase/reset-branch-action@v1
        id: reset-branch
        with:
          project_id: rapid-haze-373089
          parent: true
          branch: child_branch
          api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
      - run: echo branch_id ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The project id'
  branch:
    required: true
    description: 'The branch name or id to reset'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key'
    required: true
  parent:
    description: 'If specified, the branch will be reset to the parent branch'
    required: false
  cs_role_name:
    description: 'The output connection string db role name'
    required: false
  cs_database:
    description: 'The output connection string database name'
    required: false
  cs_prisma:
    description: 'Use prisma in output connection string or not'
    required: false
    default: 'false'
  cs_ssl:
    description: >
      Add sslmode to the connection string. Supported values are: "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "omit".
    required: false
    default: 'require'
```

- `project_id`: The ID of your Neon project. Find this value in the Neon Console on the Settings page.
- `parent`: If specified, the branch will be reset to the latest state of the parent branch.
- `branch`: The name or id of the branch to reset.
- `api_key`: An API key created in your Neon account.

The action outputs a connection string. You can modify the connection string with these optional connection string (`cs_*`) inputs:

- `cs_role_name`: The output connection string database role name.
- `cs_database`: The output connection string database name.
- `cs_prisma`: Use Prisma in output connection string or not. The default is 'false'.
- `cs_ssl`: Add `sslmode` to the connection string. Supported values are: `"require"`, `"verify-ca"`, `"verify-full"`, `"omit"`. The default is `"require"`.

### Outputs

```yaml
outputs:
  branch_id:
    description: 'Reset branch id'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
  db_url:
    description: 'DATABASE_URL of the branch after the reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.db_url }}
  db_url_with_pooler:
    description: 'DATABASE_URL with pooler of the branch after the reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.db_url_with_pooler }}
  host:
    description: 'Branch host after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.host }}
  host_with_pooler:
    description: 'Branch host with pooling enabled after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.host_with_pooler }}
  password:
    description: 'Password for connecting to the branch database after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.password }}
```

- `branch_id`: The ID of the newly reset branch.
- `db_url`: Database connection string for the branch after the reset.
- `db_url_with_pooler`: The pooled database connection string for the branch after the reset.
- `host`: The branch host after the reset.
- `host_with_pooler`: The branch host with pooling after the reset.
- `password`: The password for connecting to the branch database after the reset.

## Schema Diff action

This action performs a database schema diff on specified Neon branches for each pull request and writes a **Neon Schema Diff summary** comment to the pull request in GitHub highlighting the schema differences.

It supports workflows where schema changes are made on a development branch, and pull requests are created for review before merging the changes back into the main branch. By including the schema diff as a comment in the pull request, reviewers can easily assess the changes directly within the pull request.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Schema Diff GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-schema-diff-github-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example performs a schema diff on a database named `mydatabase` between the `compare_branch` and the `base_branch` branch.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: neondatabase/schema-diff-action@v1
    with:
      project_id: ${{ vars.NEON_PROJECT_ID }}
      compare_branch: preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}-${{ needs.setup.outputs.branch }}
      base_branch: main
      api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
      database: mydatabase
      username: myrole
```

Here's an example workflow that incorporates the action:

```yaml
name: Schema Diff for Pull Requests
on:
  pull_request:
    types:
      - opened
      - synchronize
      - reopened

jobs:
  schema_diff:
    permissions: write-all
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Schema Diff
        uses: neondatabase/schema-diff-action@v1
        with:
          project_id: ${{ vars.NEON_PROJECT_ID }}
          compare_branch: preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}
          base_branch: main
          api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
          database: mydatabase
          username: myrole
```

In this workflow, the action is triggered by pull request events such as `opened`, `reopened`, or `synchronize` (when new commits are pushed to an existing PR).

The branches to compare are specified by the `compare_branch` and `base_branch` inputs.

- The `compare_branch` is the branch linked to the pull request — it's the "downstream" dev branch that contains your proposed schema changes, and is typically created by the [Create branch](#create-branch-action) action and defined by `preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}` in the example above.
- The `base_branch` is the branch you are merging into. It's the "upstream" branch used as the reference point for the comparison. If you don’t explicitly specify the `base_branch`, the action defaults to comparing the `compare_branch` with its parent branch. The `base_branch` branch is usually named `main`, which is default name of the root branch created with each Neon project.
- The `database` is the name of the database containing the schema to be compared.
- The `username` is the name of the Postgres role that owns the database.
- `permissions: write-all` allows comments to be written on pull requests in public or private repositories. Alternatively, to be less permissive, you could use:

  ```yaml
  permissions
    pull-requests: write
    contents: write
  ```

After performing the schema diff comparison:

- The action generates an SQL patch summarizing the changes if there are schema differences between the branches.
- The action then posts a comment to the pull request containing the details of the schema diff.
- Instead of spamming the PR with multiple comments, the action updates the same comment to reflect any changes as new commits are pushed.
- If there are no schema differences between the `compare_branch` and the `base_branch`, the action doesn't add or update a comment, keeping your PR clean.

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  github-token:
    description: The GitHub token used to create an authenticated client
    required: false
    default: ${{ github.token }}
  project_id:
    description: The project id
    required: true
  compare_branch:
    description: The compare branch name or id (downstream branch)
    required: true
  api_key:
    description: The Neon API key
    required: true
  base_branch:
    description: The base branch name or id (upstream branch)
    required: false
  api_host:
    description: The Neon API Host
    default: https://console.neon.tech/api/v2
  username:
    description: The db role name
    default: neondb_owner
  database:
    description: The database name
    default: neondb
  timestamp:
    description: The timestamp of the downstream branch to compare against. Leave it empty
      to compare against the latest changes in your compare branch
  lsn:
    description: The LSN of the downstream branch to compare against. Leave it empty to
      compare against the latest changes in your compare branch
```

### Outputs

```yaml
diff:
  description: The schema diff SQL patch
comment_url:
  description: The url of the comment containing the schema diff
```

The schema diff SQL patch is posted as a **Neon Schema Diff summary** comment in the pull request, similar to this example:

![A schema diff action comment as appears in a pull request](/docs/guides/schema_diff_comment.png)

The `comment_url` allows you to easily share the schema diff for review. It also allows developers or scripts to access the comment programmatically for use in other automations.

## Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets

Using Neon's GitHub Actions requires adding a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. There
are two ways you can perform this setup:

- **Using the Neon GitHub Integration** (recommended) — this integration
  connects your Neon project to your GitHub repository, creates an API key, and
  sets the API key in your GitHub repository for you. See
  [Neon GitHub Integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration) for
  instructions.

- **Manual setup** — this method requires obtaining a Neon API key and
  configuring it manually in your GitHub repository.

  1. Obtain a Neon API key. See
     [Create an API key](https://neon.tech/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key)
     for instructions.
  1. In your GitHub repository, go to **Project settings** and locate
     **Secrets** at the bottom of the left sidebar.
  1. Click **Actions** > **New Repository Secret**.
  1. Name the secret `NEON_API_KEY` and paste your API key in the **Secret**
     field
  1. Click **Add Secret**.

## Example applications

The following example applications use GitHub Actions workflows to create and delete branches in Neon.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-cloudflare" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Cloudflare Pages preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Cloudflare Pages</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-vercel" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Vercel preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Vercel</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-fly" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Fly.io preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Fly.io</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/neon_twitter" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for schema validation and perform migrations" icon="github">Neon Twitter app</a>

</DetailIconCards>

<NeedHelp/>

Commit message:

docs: update schema diff action docs (#2549)
* docs: update schema diff action docs

* chore: format content markdown files with Prettier

* Update content/docs/guides/branching-github-actions.md

Co-authored-by: Daniel <10074684+danieltprice@users.noreply.github.com>

* docs: update comment

---------

Co-authored-by: GitHub Action <action@github.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel <10074684+danieltprice@users.noreply.github.com>

content/docs/guides/branching-github-actions.md, after:

---
title: Automate branching with GitHub Actions
subtitle: Create and delete branches with GitHub Actions
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-25T14:30:10.287Z'
---

Neon provides the following GitHub Actions for working with Neon branches, which you can add to your CI workflows:

- [Create branch action](#create-branch-action)
- [Delete branch action](#delete-branch-action)
- [Reset from parent action](#reset-from-parent-action)
- [Schema Diff action](#schema-diff-action)

<Admonition type="tip">
Neon supports a GitHub integration that connects your Neon project to a GitHub repository. The integration automatically configures a `NEON_API_KEY` secret and `PROJECT_ID` variable in your GitHub repository and provides a sample GitHub Actions workflow that utilizes Neon's GitHub Actions. See [Neon GitHub integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration) for more.
</Admonition>

## Create branch action

This GitHub Action creates a new branch in your Neon project.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Create Branch Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-create-branch-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example creates a branch based on the specified parent branch:

```yaml
name: Create Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Create a Neon Branch 🚀
jobs:
  Create-Neon-Branch:
  steps:
    - uses: neondatabase/create-branch-action@v5
      id: create-branch
      with:
        project_id: rapid-haze-373089
        # optional (defaults to your project's default branch)
        parent: dev
        # optional (defaults to neondb)
        database: my-database
        branch_name: from_action_reusable
        username: db_user_for_url
        api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
    - run: echo db_url ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url }}
    - run: echo host ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host }}
    - run: echo branch_id ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The project id'
  branch_name:
    required: false
    description: 'The branch name'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key'
    required: true
  username:
    description: 'The db role name'
    required: true
  database:
    description: 'The database name'
    default: neondb
  prisma:
    description: 'Use prisma or not'
    default: 'false'
  parent:
    description: 'The parent branch name or id or LSN or timestamp. By default the primary branch is used'
  suspend_timeout:
    description: >
      Duration of inactivity in seconds after which the compute endpoint is
      For more information, see [Auto-suspend configuration](https://neon.tech/docs/manage/endpoints#auto-suspend-configuration).
    default: '0'
  ssl:
    description: >
      Add sslmode to the connection string. Supported values are: "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "omit".
    default: 'require'
```

### Outputs

```yaml
outputs:
  db_url:
    description: 'New branch DATABASE_URL'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url }}
  db_url_with_pooler:
    description: 'New branch DATABASE_URL with pooling enabled'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.db_url_with_pooler }}
  host:
    description: 'New branch host'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host }}
  host_with_pooler:
    description: 'New branch host with pooling enabled'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.host_with_pooler }}
  branch_id:
    description: 'New branch id'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
  password:
    description: 'Password for connecting to the new branch database with the input username'
    value: ${{ steps.create-branch.outputs.password }}
```

## Delete branch action

This GitHub Action deletes a branch from your Neon project.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Delete Branch](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-delete-branch).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example deletes a branch with the `br-long-forest-224191` branch ID from a Neon project with the project ID `rapid-haze-373089` when a pull request is merged.

```yaml
name: Delete Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Delete a Neon Branch 🚀
on: [push]
jobs:
  delete-neon-branch:
    steps:
      uses: neondatabase/delete-branch-action@v3
      with:
        project_id: rapid-haze-373089
        branch: br-long-forest-224191
        api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The Neon project id'
  branch_id:
    description: 'The Neon branch id'
    deprecationMessage: 'The `branch_id` input is deprecated in favor of `branch`'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key, read more at https://neon.tech/docs/manage/api-keys'
    required: true
  branch:
    description: 'The Neon branch name or id'
```

### Outputs

This Action has no outputs.

## Reset from parent action

This GitHub Action resets a child branch with the latest data from its parent branch.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Database Reset Branch Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-database-reset-branch-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

### Example

The following example demonstrates how to reset a branch in your Neon project:

```yaml
name: Reset Neon Branch with GitHub Actions Demo
run-name: Reset a Neon Branch 🚀
jobs:
  Reset-Neon-Branch:
    steps:
      - uses: neondatabase/reset-branch-action@v1
        id: reset-branch
        with:
          project_id: rapid-haze-373089
          parent: true
          branch: child_branch
          api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
      - run: echo branch_id ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
```

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  project_id:
    required: true
    description: 'The project id'
  branch:
    required: true
    description: 'The branch name or id to reset'
  api_key:
    description: 'The Neon API key'
    required: true
  parent:
    description: 'If specified, the branch will be reset to the parent branch'
    required: false
  cs_role_name:
    description: 'The output connection string db role name'
    required: false
  cs_database:
    description: 'The output connection string database name'
    required: false
  cs_prisma:
    description: 'Use prisma in output connection string or not'
    required: false
    default: 'false'
  cs_ssl:
    description: >
      Add sslmode to the connection string. Supported values are: "require", "verify-ca", "verify-full", "omit".
    required: false
    default: 'require'
```

- `project_id`: The ID of your Neon project. Find this value in the Neon Console on the Settings page.
- `parent`: If specified, the branch will be reset to the latest state of the parent branch.
- `branch`: The name or id of the branch to reset.
- `api_key`: An API key created in your Neon account.

The action outputs a connection string. You can modify the connection string with these optional connection string (`cs_*`) inputs:

- `cs_role_name`: The output connection string database role name.
- `cs_database`: The output connection string database name.
- `cs_prisma`: Use Prisma in output connection string or not. The default is 'false'.
- `cs_ssl`: Add `sslmode` to the connection string. Supported values are: `"require"`, `"verify-ca"`, `"verify-full"`, `"omit"`. The default is `"require"`.

### Outputs

```yaml
outputs:
  branch_id:
    description: 'Reset branch id'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.branch_id }}
  db_url:
    description: 'DATABASE_URL of the branch after the reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.db_url }}
  db_url_with_pooler:
    description: 'DATABASE_URL with pooler of the branch after the reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.db_url_with_pooler }}
  host:
    description: 'Branch host after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.host }}
  host_with_pooler:
    description: 'Branch host with pooling enabled after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.host_with_pooler }}
  password:
    description: 'Password for connecting to the branch database after reset'
    value: ${{ steps.reset-branch.outputs.password }}
```

- `branch_id`: The ID of the newly reset branch.
- `db_url`: Database connection string for the branch after the reset.
- `db_url_with_pooler`: The pooled database connection string for the branch after the reset.
- `host`: The branch host after the reset.
- `host_with_pooler`: The branch host with pooling after the reset.
- `password`: The password for connecting to the branch database after the reset.

## Schema Diff action

This action performs a database schema diff on specified Neon branches for each pull request and writes comment to the pull request in GitHub highlighting the schema differences.

It supports workflows where schema changes are made on a branch. When you create or update a pull request containing schema changes, the action automatically generates a comment within the pull request. By including the schema diff as part of the comment, reviewers can easily assess the changes directly within the pull request.

<Admonition type="tip" title="GitHub Actions Marketplace">
You can find this action on the **GitHub Actions Marketplace**: [Neon Schema Diff GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/neon-schema-diff-github-action).
</Admonition>

### Prerequisites

- A Neon API key. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Create an API key](/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key).
- You will need to add your Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. See [Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets](#add-a-neon-api-key-to-your-github-repository-secrets) for instructions.

You can easily set up the prerequisites mentioned above using our [GitHub integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration), which takes care of the entire process and automatically.

### Example

The following example performs a schema diff on a database named `mydatabase` between the `compare_branch` and the `base_branch` branch.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: neondatabase/schema-diff-action@v1
    with:
      project_id: ${{ vars.NEON_PROJECT_ID }}
      compare_branch: preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}-${{ needs.setup.outputs.branch }}
      base_branch: main
      api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
      database: mydatabase
      username: myrole
```

Here's an example workflow that incorporates the action:

```yaml
name: Schema Diff for Pull Requests
on:
  pull_request:
    types:
      - opened
      - synchronize
      - reopened

jobs:
  schema_diff:
    permissions:
      pull-requests: write
      contents: read
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Schema Diff
        uses: neondatabase/schema-diff-action@v1
        with:
          project_id: ${{ vars.NEON_PROJECT_ID }}
          compare_branch: preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}
          base_branch: main
          api_key: ${{ secrets.NEON_API_KEY }}
          database: mydatabase
          username: myrole
```

In this workflow, the action is triggered by pull request events such as `opened`, `reopened`, or `synchronize` (when new commits are pushed to an existing PR).

The branches to compare are specified by the `compare_branch` and `base_branch` inputs.

- The `compare_branch` is the branch linked to the pull request — it's the "downstream" dev branch that contains your proposed schema changes, and is typically created by the [Create branch](#create-branch-action) action and defined by `preview/pr-${{ github.event.number }}` in the example above.
- The `base_branch` is the branch you are merging into. It's the "upstream" branch used as the reference point for the comparison. If you don’t explicitly specify the `base_branch`, the action defaults to comparing the `compare_branch` with its parent branch. The `base_branch` branch is usually named `main`, which is default name of the root branch created with each Neon project.
- The `database` is the name of the database containing the schema to be compared.
- The `username` is the name of the Postgres role that owns the database.
- `permissions` allows comments to be written on pull requests and repository contents to be read. These permissions are necessary if, for example, you need to check out your branch to run migrations.

  ```yaml
  permissions:
    pull-requests: write
    contents: read
  ```

With the permissions above you will only allow read access to repository contents (needed to checkout the current branch, for example) and write access to pull requests.

After performing the schema diff comparison:

- The action generates an SQL patch summarizing the changes if there are schema differences between the branches.
- The action then posts a comment to the pull request containing the details of the schema diff.
- Instead of spamming the PR with multiple comments, the action updates the same comment to reflect any changes as new commits are pushed.
- If there are no schema differences between the `compare_branch` and the `base_branch`, the action doesn't add or update a comment, keeping your PR clean.

### Input variables

```yaml
inputs:
  github-token:
    description: The GitHub token used to create an authenticated client
    required: false
    default: ${{ github.token }}
  project_id:
    description: The project id
    required: true
  compare_branch:
    description: The compare branch name or id (downstream branch)
    required: true
  api_key:
    description: The Neon API key
    required: true
  base_branch:
    description: The base branch name or id (upstream branch)
    required: false
  api_host:
    description: The Neon API Host
    default: https://console.neon.tech/api/v2
  username:
    description: The db role name
    default: neondb_owner
  database:
    description: The database name
    default: neondb
  timestamp:
    description: The timestamp of the downstream branch to compare against. Leave it empty
      to compare against the latest changes in your compare branch
  lsn:
    description: The LSN of the downstream branch to compare against. Leave it empty to
      compare against the latest changes in your compare branch
```

### Outputs

```yaml
diff:
  description: The schema diff SQL patch
comment_url:
  description: The url of the comment containing the schema diff
```

The schema diff SQL patch is posted as a **Neon Schema Diff summary** comment in the pull request, similar to [this example](https://github.com/neondatabase/schema-diff-action/blob/main/docs/pr_comment.md).

The `comment_url` allows you to easily share the schema diff for review. It also allows developers or scripts to access the comment programmatically for use in other automations.

## Add a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets

Using Neon's GitHub Actions requires adding a Neon API key to your GitHub repository secrets. There
are two ways you can perform this setup:

- **Using the Neon GitHub Integration** (recommended) — this integration
  connects your Neon project to your GitHub repository, creates an API key, and
  sets the API key in your GitHub repository for you. See
  [Neon GitHub Integration](/docs/guides/neon-github-integration) for
  instructions.

- **Manual setup** — this method requires obtaining a Neon API key and
  configuring it manually in your GitHub repository.

  1. Obtain a Neon API key. See
     [Create an API key](https://neon.tech/docs/manage/api-keys#create-an-api-key)
     for instructions.
  1. In your GitHub repository, go to **Project settings** and locate
     **Secrets** at the bottom of the left sidebar.
  1. Click **Actions** > **New Repository Secret**.
  1. Name the secret `NEON_API_KEY` and paste your API key in the **Secret**
     field
  1. Click **Add Secret**.

## Example applications

The following example applications use GitHub Actions workflows to create and delete branches in Neon.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-cloudflare" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Cloudflare Pages preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Cloudflare Pages</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-vercel" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Vercel preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Vercel</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/preview-branches-with-fly" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for every Fly.io preview deployment" icon="github">Preview branches with Fly.io</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/neon_twitter" description="Demonstrates using GitHub Actions workflows to create a Neon branch for schema validation and perform migrations" icon="github">Neon Twitter app</a>

</DetailIconCards>

<NeedHelp/>
