content/docs/guides/project-sharing-guide.md, before:

---
title: Project sharing
subtitle: Learn how to share your Neon project with others
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-09-19T14:13:04.113Z'
---

You can share a Neon project with other users, giving them access to your Neon project from all supported Neon interfaces, including the Neon Console, Neon API, and Neon CLI. Follow this guide to learn how.

## Set up Neon accounts

You can share your Neon project with anyone. The only requirement is that the user has a Neon account. The account can be a Neon Free Plan account or a paid plan account.

1. If the user does not have a Neon account, ask them to sign up. You can provide your users with the following instructions: [Sign up](/docs/get-started-with-neon/signing-up).
2. Request the email address the user signed up with. If the user signed up with a Google or GitHub account, ask for the email address associated with that account.

## Share your project

After a user has provided you with the email address associated with their Neon account, you can share your project with that user.

To share your project:

1. Navigate to the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects).
2. Select the project you want to share.
3. On the Neon **Dashboard**, select **Project settings** from the sidebar.
4. On the **Project settings** page, select **Sharing**.
5. Under **Grant access to your project**, enter the email address of the account you want to share your project with.
   ![Grant access to a project](/docs/guides/sharing_grant_access.png)
6. Click **Grant access**. The email you specify is added to the list of **Users with access to the project**.
   ![People with access](/docs/guides/sharing_people_with_access.png)

   The Neon account associated with the email address is granted full access to the project with the exception privileges required to delete the project. This account can also share the project with other Neon users. When the user logs in to Neon, the shared project is listed on their **Projects** page, under **Shared with me**.

   ![Project shared with you](/docs/guides/shared_with_you.png)

   An email is also sent to the email address informing the user that a project has been shared with them. The email includes an **Open project** link the user can click on to log in to Neon. After logging in, the user is directed to the **Dashboard** for the shared project in the Neon Console.

## Shared project limits

The users you share a project with operate within your project allowances rather than their Neon Free Plan project allowances when using your project. For example, a Neon Free Plan user is limited to 10 branches in their own project. When using your project, there is no such restriction. For an overview of plan limits, see [Neon plans](/docs/introduction/plans#neon-plans).

## Access to a shared project via the Neon API or CLI

The users you share a project with can access the project from all supported Neon interfaces, including the Neon Console, [Neon API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getting-started-with-neon-api), and [Neon CLI](/docs/reference/neon-cli).

Users can access a shared project via the Neon API using an API key from their own Neon account. For information about obtaining an API key, see [Manage API keys](/docs/manage/api-keys).

When using the Neon CLI, users authenticate as they would normally. Users are able to access their own Neon projects as well as shared projects. See [Neon CLI — Connect](/docs/reference/cli-install#connect) for authentication instructions.

## Shared project billing

The costs associated with a shared project are charged to the Neon account that owns the project. For example, if you share your project with another Neon user account, any usage incurred by that user within your project is billed to your Neon account.

Commit message:

docs: removed project sharing for project collaboration

content/docs/guides/project-sharing-guide.md, after:

---
title: Project collaboration
subtitle: Learn how to invite people to collaborate on your Neon project
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-09-19T14:13:04.113Z'
---

You can invite other users to collaborate with you on a Neon project. Project collaboration lets other users access and contribute to your project from all supported Neon interfaces, including the Neon Console, Neon API, and Neon CLI. Follow this guide to learn how.

<Admonition type="note">Project collaboration lets people not on your team work on a project with you. If you're inviting team members, consider creating an [Organization](docs/manage/organizations) instead. Organizations can also use project collaboration &#8212; for example, to allow an external contractor to contribute to a single project without making them a full Organization Member.</Admonition>

## Set up Neon accounts

You can invite anyone to join you in collaborating on your Neon project. To collaborate on a project, the user must have a Neon account, which can be a Neon Free Plan or a paid plan account.

1. If the user does not have a Neon account, ask them to sign up. You can provide your users with the following instructions: [Sign up](/docs/get-started-with-neon/signing-up).
2. Request the email address the user signed up with. If the user signed up using Google or GitHub, request the email address associated with that account.

## Invite collaborators

After a user has provided you with the email address associated with their Neon account, you can invite them to your project.

**To invite a collaborator to your project:**

1. Navigate to the [Neon Console](https://console.neon.tech/app/projects).
2. Select the project you want to invite collaborators to.
3. In the Neon **Settings**, choose **Collaborators** from the sidebar.

   ![Invite collaborators](/docs/guides/sharing_grant_access.png)

5. Click **Invite**. In the modal that pops up, enter the email address of the person you'd like to invite. You can enter multiple emails separated by commas.
6. Click **Invite** in the modal to confirm; the specified email(s) will be added to the list of **Collaborators**.
6. Review the list of collaborators to verify the user was successfully added.

The invited users will be granted access to the project, but they will not have privileges to delete the project. They can also invite other users to join the collaboration. When they log into Neon, the project will appear under the **Projects** section, listed as **Shared with me**.

An email is sent to the invited users informing them of the project invitation, including an **Open project** link for easy access.

## Project collaboration limits

When you invite a user to your project, they operate under _your_ project allowances so long as they're using your project. For example, a Neon Free Plan user is limited to 10 branches in their own project, but if they are using your project, there is no such restriction. For an overview of plan limits, see [Neon plans](/docs/introduction/plans#neon-plans).

### Access for collaborators via the Neon API or CLI

Collaborators you invite to a project can access it from all supported Neon interfaces, including the Neon Console, [Neon API](https://api-docs.neon.tech/reference/getting-started-with-neon-api), and [Neon CLI](/docs/reference/neon-cli).

Collaborators can use their own API key to access the project via the Neon API. See [Manage API keys](/docs/manage/api-keys) for details on generating an API key.

When using the Neon CLI, collaborators authenticate as they normally would. They can access both their own Neon projects and any projects they are collaborating on. See [Neon CLI — Connect](/docs/reference/cli-install#connect) for authentication instructions.

## Billing for projects with collaborators

All costs associated with a project are charged to the Neon account that owns it. For example, if you invite someone to collaborate on your project, any usage incurred by that collaborator will be billed to your Neon account.
