content/docs/guides/vercel-native-integration.md, before:

---
title: Install the Neon Postgres Native Integration on Vercel
subtitle: Add Neon Postgres storage to your Vercel project as a first-party native
  integration
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: false
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.065Z'
---

<InfoBlock>
<DocsList title="What you will learn:">
<p>What is the Neon Postgres Native Integration</p>
<p>How to install Neon Postgres from the Vercel Marketplace</p>
<p>How to manage your integration</p>
</DocsList>

<DocsList title="Related topics" theme="docs">
<a href="/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration">Neon Postgres Previews Integration</a>
<a href="/docs/introduction/plans">Neon plans</a>
</DocsList>
</InfoBlock>

## About the integration

**What is the Neon Postgres Native Integration?**

The [Vercel Marketplace](https://vercel.com/marketplace) allows you to add Neon Postgres to your Vercel project as a [native integration](https://vercel.com/docs/integrations/install-an-integration/product-integration).

- Installing the integration creates a Neon account for you if you do not have one already.
- Billing for Neon Postgres is managed in Vercel, not Neon.
- You get access to the same features and [Neon pricing plans](/docs/introduction/plans) as users who register with Neon directly, including access to your database from the Neon Console.

<Admonition type="note">
The **Neon Postgres Native Integration** is intended for Vercel users who want to add Neon Postgres to their Vercel project as a first-party native integration.
- You cannot install this integration if you currently have Vercel Postgres installed. Please see [Transitioning from Vercel Postgres](/docs/guides/vercel-overview#transitioning-from-vercel-postgres) for details about when Vercel will transition Vercel Postgres users to Neon.
- If you are an existing Neon user, installing the integration will add a new Neon organization named **Vercel: `<vercel_team_name>`** to your existing Neon account, assuming your Neon and Vercel accounts use the same email address.
- If you are an existing Neon user and want create a database branch for each preview deployment in Vercel, use the [Neon Postgres Previews Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration) instead. The native integration does not support automatic database branches for Vercel preview deployments.
</Admonition>

## How to install

To install the **Neon Postgres Native Integration** from the Vercel Marketplace:

1. Navigate to the [Vercel Marketplace](https://vercel.com/marketplace) or to the [Integrations Console](https://vercel.com/neondatabase/~/integrations/console) on your Vercel Dashboard.
2. Locate the **Neon** integration.
3. Click **Install**.
4. On the **Install Neon** modal, you are presented with two options. Select **Create New Neon Account**, and click **Continue**.
   ![Select the native integration option](/docs/guides/vercel_select_native.png)

5. On the **Create New Neon Account** modal, accept the terms and conditions, and click **Create New Neon Account**.
6. On the **Create Database** modal, select a region, specify your compute size and autosuspend settings, and choose a plan. To enable autoscaling, specify a compute size range (e.g., 0.25—2 VCPU).

   <Admonition type="note">
     **The settings you choose must be supported by the plan you select**. The supported settings by plan are:

   | Plan     | Compute Size    | Suspend after ([Autosuspend](/docs/introduction/auto-suspend)) |
   | :------- | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Free     | 0.25 - 2 vCPUs  | 5 minutes (Default)                                            |
   | Launch   | 0.25 - 4 vCPUs  | 5 minutes or more (Default, Never, Custom)                     |
   | Scale    | 0.25 - 8 vCPUs  | 1 minute or more (Default, Never, Custom)                      |
   | Business | 0.25 - 10 vCPUs | 1 minute or more (Default, Never, Custom)                      |

   For an overview of what comes with each Neon Plan, please refer to the Neon [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page.
   </Admonition>

7. Specify a **Database Name**, and click **Create**.

   <Admonition type="note" title="A Database in Vercel is a Project in Neon">
   Your **Database Name** in Vercel will be the name of your **Project** in Neon.
   </Admonition>

8. A **Database** is created in Vercel, and you are directed to the **Storage** tab on the Vercel Dashboard where you can view details about your new Database, including:

   - Status
   - Plan
   - Current Period (billing)
   - Period Total (billing)
   - Your database connection string

   From the sidebar, you can view your **Neon Projects**, **Settings**, **Getting Started**, and **Usage**. There's also a link to **Neon Support**.

## Open your Database / Neon Project in the Neon Console

To open your Database / Neon Project in the Neon Console:

1. From the **Storage** tab in the Vercel Dashboard, select your Database.
2. On your Database page, select **Open in Neon Postgres**.
3. In the Neon Console, you are directed the projects page for your Organization. It will be named **Vercel: `<organization_name>`**. If you're a new Neon user, you will have a single Neon Project, and your Organization name in Neon will be the name of your Vercel account. For example, if your Vercel account name is **Alex's projects**, your Neon Organization name will be **Vercel: Alex's projects**.

<Admonition type="note">
All Neon Plans, including the Free Plan, support multiple Neon Projects (a.k.a "Databases" in Vercel). Creating additional projects is performed from the Vercel Dashboard. See [Adding more Databases](#adding-more-databases) for instructions.
</Admonition>

### Actions supported only from the Vercel Dashboard

As a user of the Neon Postgres Native Integration, you have access to all Neon features. However, some actions normally performed in the Neon Console are either not supported or only available through the Vercel Dashboard:

- **Project/Database Management**:

  - **Databases** (a.k.a "Projects" in Neon) can only be created or deleted through the Vercel Dashboard. See [Adding more databases](#adding-more-databases) and [Deleting your database](#deleting-your-database).
  - **Organization Deletion**: Organizations cannot be deleted in the Neon Console; they are deleted if the Neon Postgres Native Integration is uninstalled from Vercel.

- **User & Collaborator Management**:

  - [Organization](/docs/manage/organizations) members are managed in Vercel, not manually added through the Neon Dashboard.
  - [Organization deletion](/docs/manage/orgs-manage#delete-an-organization) is not supported for Neon organizations created by the native integration. You can only delete this organization by deleting the associated Database in Vercel.
  - [Project transfer](/docs/manage/orgs-project-transfer) is not supported for a Neon organization created by the native integration.
  - [Project collaborators](/docs/guides/project-collaboration-guide) are also managed as Members in Vercel.

- **Compute Settings**:

  - Compute settings like size, autoscaling, and autosuspend are managed in Vercel. See [Changing your Database configuration](#changing-your-database-configuration).

- **Project Naming**:

  - Changing your Neon project name (**Database Name** in Vercel) is done in Vercel. See [Changing your Database configuration](#changing-your-database-configuration).

- **Billing & Payments**:
  - Invoices, payments, and plan changes (upgrades/downgrades) are managed in Vercel.

## Changing your Database configuration

Configuration changes you can make include:

- Changing the **Database Name** (Project name in Neon)
- Changing the **Compute size**
- Changing **Suspend after period of inactivity** setting (Autosuspend)
- Changing your **Installation Level Plan** (your Neon plan)

To change your configuration:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. In the **Update configuration** section, select **Change Configuration**.
4. Select the desired configurations, and click **Save**.

## Adding more Databases

All Neon Plans, including the Free Plan, support multiple Databases / Neon Projects (remember that **A "Database" in Vercel is a "Project" in Neon**).

To create another Database / Neon Project:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to your **Integrations** tab.
2. Locate the **Neon Postgres** integration, and click **Manage**.
3. Find the **More Products** card, and click **Install**.
4. Make your selections for region, compute size settings, and plan on the **Create Database** modal, and click **Continue**.

   <Admonition type="note">
   Remember, if you're adding another "Database", you're' already on a Neon Plan, which will be identified on the modal by a **Current** tag. Select a different plan will change your Neon Plan for all of your "Databases". So, don't select a different plan unless you actually want to change your plan for all of your "Databases".
   </Admonition>

5. Specify a **Database Name** (this will be the **Project name** in Neon), and click **Create**.
6. A new **Database** is created in Vercel, and you are directed to the **Storage** tab on the Vercel Dashboard where you can view details about your new Database, including:

   - Status
   - Plan
   - Current Period (billing)
   - Period Total (billing)
   - Your database connection string

   From the sidebar, you can view your **Neon Projects**, **Settings**, **Getting Started**, and **Usage**. There's also a link to **Neon Support**.

## Monitoring usage

You can monitor usage in Vercel or in the Neon Console. For information about monitoring usage in the Neon Console, see [Monitor billing and usage](/docs/introduction/monitor-usage).

To monitor usage in Vercel:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Usage** to view the **Usage Report** for available metrics.

## Changing your plan

When you install the Neon Postgres Native Integration from the Vercel Marketplace, you have access to all the same Neon plans that are available to anyone signing up for Neon directly. Changing your plan (upgrading or downgrading) is performed in Vercel.

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. In the **Update configuration** section, select **Change Configuration**.
4. Select the desired **Installation plan**, and click **Save**.

For an overview of Neon's plans, please visit our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page.

## Deleting your Database

Deleting a database in Vercel deletes your project in Neon and all of its data.

To delete your database:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. Navigate to the Delete Database section and follow the instructions.

This action is not reversible, so please proceed with caution.

## Environment variables set by the integration

The environment variables listed below are set by the integration. Please note the following:

- The `DATABASE_URL` variable is a pooled Neon connection string. Connection pooling in Neon uses PgBouncer. For more, see [Connection pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling).
- `DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED` is an direct connection string for your database, often required by schema migration tools. For more, see [Connection pooling with schema migration tools](/docs/connect/connection-pooling#connection-pooling-with-schema-migration-tools).
- There are several variables provided for constructing your own connection settings.
- The integration sets variables that were previously used by Vercel Postgres. These variables support [Vercel Postgres Templates](https://vercel.com/templates/vercel-postgres), which you can now use with Neon Postgres.

```bash
# Recommended for most uses
DATABASE_URL

# For uses requiring a connection without pgbouncer
DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED

# Parameters for constructing your own connection string
PGHOST
PGHOST_UNPOOLED
PGUSER
PGDATABASE
PGPASSWORD

# Parameters for Vercel Postgres Templates
POSTGRES_URL
POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING
POSTGRES_USER
POSTGRES_HOST
POSTGRES_PASSWORD
POSTGRES_DATABASE
POSTGRES_URL_NO_SSL
POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL
```

## Limitations

When using the Neon Postgres Native Integration, installing the [Neon Postgres Previews Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration) on the same Vercel Project is not supported.

<NeedHelp/>

Commit message:

docs: scale to zero naming update

content/docs/guides/vercel-native-integration.md, after:

---
title: Install the Neon Postgres Native Integration on Vercel
subtitle: Add Neon Postgres storage to your Vercel project as a first-party native
  integration
enableTableOfContents: true
isDraft: false
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.065Z'
---

<InfoBlock>
<DocsList title="What you will learn:">
<p>What is the Neon Postgres Native Integration</p>
<p>How to install Neon Postgres from the Vercel Marketplace</p>
<p>How to manage your integration</p>
</DocsList>

<DocsList title="Related topics" theme="docs">
<a href="/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration">Neon Postgres Previews Integration</a>
<a href="/docs/introduction/plans">Neon plans</a>
</DocsList>
</InfoBlock>

## About the integration

**What is the Neon Postgres Native Integration?**

The [Vercel Marketplace](https://vercel.com/marketplace) allows you to add Neon Postgres to your Vercel project as a [native integration](https://vercel.com/docs/integrations/install-an-integration/product-integration).

- Installing the integration creates a Neon account for you if you do not have one already.
- Billing for Neon Postgres is managed in Vercel, not Neon.
- You get access to the same features and [Neon pricing plans](/docs/introduction/plans) as users who register with Neon directly, including access to your database from the Neon Console.

<Admonition type="note">
The **Neon Postgres Native Integration** is intended for Vercel users who want to add Neon Postgres to their Vercel project as a first-party native integration.
- You cannot install this integration if you currently have Vercel Postgres installed. Please see [Transitioning from Vercel Postgres](/docs/guides/vercel-overview#transitioning-from-vercel-postgres) for details about when Vercel will transition Vercel Postgres users to Neon.
- If you are an existing Neon user, installing the integration will add a new Neon organization named **Vercel: `<vercel_team_name>`** to your existing Neon account, assuming your Neon and Vercel accounts use the same email address.
- If you are an existing Neon user and want create a database branch for each preview deployment in Vercel, use the [Neon Postgres Previews Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration) instead. The native integration does not support automatic database branches for Vercel preview deployments.
</Admonition>

## How to install

To install the **Neon Postgres Native Integration** from the Vercel Marketplace:

1. Navigate to the [Vercel Marketplace](https://vercel.com/marketplace) or to the [Integrations Console](https://vercel.com/neondatabase/~/integrations/console) on your Vercel Dashboard.
2. Locate the **Neon** integration.
3. Click **Install**.
4. On the **Install Neon** modal, you are presented with two options. Select **Create New Neon Account**, and click **Continue**.
   ![Select the native integration option](/docs/guides/vercel_select_native.png)

5. On the **Create New Neon Account** modal, accept the terms and conditions, and click **Create New Neon Account**.
6. On the **Create Database** modal, select a region, specify your compute size and scale to zero settings, and choose a plan. To enable autoscaling, specify a compute size range (e.g., 0.25—2 VCPU).

   <Admonition type="note">
     **The settings you choose must be supported by the plan you select**. The supported settings by plan are:

   | Plan     | Compute Size    | Suspend after ([Scale to zero](/docs/introduction/scale-to-zero)) |
   | :------- | :-------------- | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Free     | 0.25 - 2 vCPUs  | 5 minutes (Default)                                            |
   | Launch   | 0.25 - 4 vCPUs  | 5 minutes or more (Default, Never, Custom)                     |
   | Scale    | 0.25 - 8 vCPUs  | 1 minute or more (Default, Never, Custom)                      |
   | Business | 0.25 - 10 vCPUs | 1 minute or more (Default, Never, Custom)                      |

   For an overview of what comes with each Neon Plan, please refer to the Neon [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page.
   </Admonition>

7. Specify a **Database Name**, and click **Create**.

   <Admonition type="note" title="A Database in Vercel is a Project in Neon">
   Your **Database Name** in Vercel will be the name of your **Project** in Neon.
   </Admonition>

8. A **Database** is created in Vercel, and you are directed to the **Storage** tab on the Vercel Dashboard where you can view details about your new Database, including:

   - Status
   - Plan
   - Current Period (billing)
   - Period Total (billing)
   - Your database connection string

   From the sidebar, you can view your **Neon Projects**, **Settings**, **Getting Started**, and **Usage**. There's also a link to **Neon Support**.

## Open your Database / Neon Project in the Neon Console

To open your Database / Neon Project in the Neon Console:

1. From the **Storage** tab in the Vercel Dashboard, select your Database.
2. On your Database page, select **Open in Neon Postgres**.
3. In the Neon Console, you are directed the projects page for your Organization. It will be named **Vercel: `<organization_name>`**. If you're a new Neon user, you will have a single Neon Project, and your Organization name in Neon will be the name of your Vercel account. For example, if your Vercel account name is **Alex's projects**, your Neon Organization name will be **Vercel: Alex's projects**.

<Admonition type="note">
All Neon Plans, including the Free Plan, support multiple Neon Projects (a.k.a "Databases" in Vercel). Creating additional projects is performed from the Vercel Dashboard. See [Adding more Databases](#adding-more-databases) for instructions.
</Admonition>

### Actions supported only from the Vercel Dashboard

As a user of the Neon Postgres Native Integration, you have access to all Neon features. However, some actions normally performed in the Neon Console are either not supported or only available through the Vercel Dashboard:

- **Project/Database Management**:

  - **Databases** (a.k.a "Projects" in Neon) can only be created or deleted through the Vercel Dashboard. See [Adding more databases](#adding-more-databases) and [Deleting your database](#deleting-your-database).
  - **Organization Deletion**: Organizations cannot be deleted in the Neon Console; they are deleted if the Neon Postgres Native Integration is uninstalled from Vercel.

- **User & Collaborator Management**:

  - [Organization](/docs/manage/organizations) members are managed in Vercel, not manually added through the Neon Dashboard.
  - [Organization deletion](/docs/manage/orgs-manage#delete-an-organization) is not supported for Neon organizations created by the native integration. You can only delete this organization by deleting the associated Database in Vercel.
  - [Project transfer](/docs/manage/orgs-project-transfer) is not supported for a Neon organization created by the native integration.
  - [Project collaborators](/docs/guides/project-collaboration-guide) are also managed as Members in Vercel.

- **Compute Settings**:

  - Compute settings like size, autoscaling, and scale to zero are managed in Vercel. See [Changing your Database configuration](#changing-your-database-configuration).

- **Project Naming**:

  - Changing your Neon project name (**Database Name** in Vercel) is done in Vercel. See [Changing your Database configuration](#changing-your-database-configuration).

- **Billing & Payments**:
  - Invoices, payments, and plan changes (upgrades/downgrades) are managed in Vercel.

## Changing your Database configuration

Configuration changes you can make include:

- Changing the **Database Name** (Project name in Neon)
- Changing the **Compute size**
- Changing the scale to zero setting
- Changing your **Installation Level Plan** (your Neon plan)

To change your configuration:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. In the **Update configuration** section, select **Change Configuration**.
4. Select the desired configurations, and click **Save**.

## Adding more Databases

All Neon Plans, including the Free Plan, support multiple Databases / Neon Projects (remember that **A "Database" in Vercel is a "Project" in Neon**).

To create another Database / Neon Project:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to your **Integrations** tab.
2. Locate the **Neon Postgres** integration, and click **Manage**.
3. Find the **More Products** card, and click **Install**.
4. Make your selections for region, compute size settings, and plan on the **Create Database** modal, and click **Continue**.

   <Admonition type="note">
   Remember, if you're adding another "Database", you're' already on a Neon Plan, which will be identified on the modal by a **Current** tag. Select a different plan will change your Neon Plan for all of your "Databases". So, don't select a different plan unless you actually want to change your plan for all of your "Databases".
   </Admonition>

5. Specify a **Database Name** (this will be the **Project name** in Neon), and click **Create**.
6. A new **Database** is created in Vercel, and you are directed to the **Storage** tab on the Vercel Dashboard where you can view details about your new Database, including:

   - Status
   - Plan
   - Current Period (billing)
   - Period Total (billing)
   - Your database connection string

   From the sidebar, you can view your **Neon Projects**, **Settings**, **Getting Started**, and **Usage**. There's also a link to **Neon Support**.

## Monitoring usage

You can monitor usage in Vercel or in the Neon Console. For information about monitoring usage in the Neon Console, see [Monitor billing and usage](/docs/introduction/monitor-usage).

To monitor usage in Vercel:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Usage** to view the **Usage Report** for available metrics.

## Changing your plan

When you install the Neon Postgres Native Integration from the Vercel Marketplace, you have access to all the same Neon plans that are available to anyone signing up for Neon directly. Changing your plan (upgrading or downgrading) is performed in Vercel.

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. In the **Update configuration** section, select **Change Configuration**.
4. Select the desired **Installation plan**, and click **Save**.

For an overview of Neon's plans, please visit our [Pricing](https://neon.tech/pricing) page.

## Deleting your Database

Deleting a database in Vercel deletes your project in Neon and all of its data.

To delete your database:

1. On the Vercel Dashboard, navigate to **Storage** tab.
2. Select **Settings**.
3. Navigate to the Delete Database section and follow the instructions.

This action is not reversible, so please proceed with caution.

## Environment variables set by the integration

The environment variables listed below are set by the integration. Please note the following:

- The `DATABASE_URL` variable is a pooled Neon connection string. Connection pooling in Neon uses PgBouncer. For more, see [Connection pooling](/docs/connect/connection-pooling).
- `DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED` is an direct connection string for your database, often required by schema migration tools. For more, see [Connection pooling with schema migration tools](/docs/connect/connection-pooling#connection-pooling-with-schema-migration-tools).
- There are several variables provided for constructing your own connection settings.
- The integration sets variables that were previously used by Vercel Postgres. These variables support [Vercel Postgres Templates](https://vercel.com/templates/vercel-postgres), which you can now use with Neon Postgres.

```bash
# Recommended for most uses
DATABASE_URL

# For uses requiring a connection without pgbouncer
DATABASE_URL_UNPOOLED

# Parameters for constructing your own connection string
PGHOST
PGHOST_UNPOOLED
PGUSER
PGDATABASE
PGPASSWORD

# Parameters for Vercel Postgres Templates
POSTGRES_URL
POSTGRES_URL_NON_POOLING
POSTGRES_USER
POSTGRES_HOST
POSTGRES_PASSWORD
POSTGRES_DATABASE
POSTGRES_URL_NO_SSL
POSTGRES_PRISMA_URL
```

## Limitations

When using the Neon Postgres Native Integration, installing the [Neon Postgres Previews Integration](/docs/guides/vercel-previews-integration) on the same Vercel Project is not supported.

<NeedHelp/>
