content/postgresql/postgresql-python/connect.md, before:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Connect to PostgreSQL Database Server'
page_title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Connecting to PostgreSQL Server'
page_description: 'In this tutorial, you will learn how to connect to the PostgreSQL database server from Python using the psycopg2 package.'
prev_url: 'https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-python/connect/'
ogImage: ''
updatedOn: '2024-05-19T08:11:16+00:00'
enableTableOfContents: true
previousLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL Python'
  slug: 'postgresql-python/'
nextLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Create Tables'
  slug: 'postgresql-python/create-tables'
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to connect to the PostgreSQL server in Python using the `psycopg2` package.

## Creating a virtual environment

First, open the Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Unix\-like systems.

Second, create a new directory to store the project files such as `suppliers`:

```plaintextsql
mkdir suppliers
```

Third, [create a new virtual environment](https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-basics/python-virtual-environments/) called `venv` using the built\-in `venv` module:

```plaintext
python -m venv venv
```

Finally, activate the virtual environment on Windows:

```plaintext
venv/scripts/activate
```

on Unix\-like systems:

```plaintext
source venv/bin/activate
```

## Installing the psycopg2 module

First, install the `psycopg2` package using the following `pip` command:

```shell
pip install psycopg2
```

Second, create the `requirements.txt` file:

```python
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

## Creating a new database

First, [connect to the PostgreSQL server](../postgresql-getting-started/connect-to-postgresql-database) using the `psql` client tool:

```python
psql -U postgres
```

Second, [create a new database](../postgresql-administration/postgresql-create-database) called `suppliers`:

```python
CREATE DATABASE suppliers;
```

Third, exit the `psql`:

```sql
exit
```

## Connecting to the PostgreSQL database from Python

First, create a configuration file called `database.ini` in the project directory to store database connection parameters:

```python
[postgresql]
host=localhost
database=suppliers
user=YourUsername
password=YourPassword
```

In the `database.ini` file, you need to replace the `YourUsername` and `YourPassword` with the real ones.

Second, create a new file called `config.py` in the project directory and define a function called `load_config()` that reads configuration data from the `database.ini` file:

```python
from configparser import ConfigParser

def load_config(filename='database.ini', section='postgresql'):
    parser = ConfigParser()
    parser.read(filename)

    # get section, default to postgresql
    config = {}
    if parser.has_section(section):
        params = parser.items(section)
        for param in params:
            config[param[0]] = param[1]
    else:
        raise Exception('Section {0} not found in the {1} file'.format(section, filename))

    return config

if __name__ == '__main__':
    config = load_config()
    print(config)
```

The `config.py` module uses the built\-in `configparser` module to read data from the `database.ini` file.

By using the `database.ini`, you can change the PostgreSQL connection parameters when moving the code to different environments such as testing or production.

Notice that if you git source control, you need to add the `database.ini` to the `.gitignore` file to avoid committing sensitive information to a public repository like GitHub:

```python
database.ini
```

Third, create a new file called `connect.py` that uses the `config.py` module to read the database configuration and connect to the PostgreSQL:

```python
import psycopg2
from config import load_config

def connect(config):
    """ Connect to the PostgreSQL database server """
    try:
        # connecting to the PostgreSQL server
        with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
            print('Connected to the PostgreSQL server.')
            return conn
    except (psycopg2.DatabaseError, Exception) as error:
        print(error)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    config = load_config()
    connect(config)
```

To connect to the `suppliers` database, you use the `connect()` function of the `psycopg2` module.

The `connect()` function creates a new database session and returns a new instance of the `connection` class.

To call the `connect()` function, you specify the PostgreSQL database parameters as a connection string and pass it to the function like this:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect("dbname=suppliers user=YourUsername password=YourPassword")
```

Alternatively, you can use keyword arguments:

```
conn = psycopg2.connect(
    host="localhost",
    database="suppliers",
    user="YourUsername",
    password="YourPassword"
)
```

The following is the list of the connection parameters:

- `database`: the name of the database that you want to connect.
- `user`: the username used to authenticate.
- `password`: password used to authenticate.
- `host`: database server address e.g., localhost or an IP address.
- `port`: the port number that defaults to 5432 if it is not provided.

Since we use the `config.py` module, we can pass the configuration to the `connect()` function and unpack it using the `**` operator:

```python
with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
```

The `with` statement doesn't automatically close the database connection see: https://www.psycopg.org/docs/usage.html#with-statement

### Executing the connect.py module

To execute the `connect.py` file, you use the following command:

```shell
python connect.py
```

Output:

```shell
Connected to the PostgreSQL server.
```

The output indicates that you have successfully connected to the PostgreSQL server.

[Download the project source code](/postgresqltutorial/connect.zip)

## Summary

- Use the `psycopg2` package to connect to the PostgreSQL server from Python.
- Call the `connect()` function of the `psycopg2` module to connect to the PostgreSQL server.

Commit message:

docs: add details about with connection

content/postgresql/postgresql-python/connect.md, after:

---
title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Connect to PostgreSQL Database Server'
page_title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Connecting to PostgreSQL Server'
page_description: 'In this tutorial, you will learn how to connect to the PostgreSQL database server from Python using the psycopg2 package.'
prev_url: 'https://www.postgresqltutorial.com/postgresql-python/connect/'
ogImage: ''
updatedOn: '2024-05-19T08:11:16+00:00'
enableTableOfContents: true
previousLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL Python'
  slug: 'postgresql-python/'
nextLink:
  title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Create Tables'
  slug: 'postgresql-python/create-tables'
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to connect to the PostgreSQL server in Python using the `psycopg2` package.

## Creating a virtual environment

First, open the Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Unix\-like systems.

Second, create a new directory to store the project files such as `suppliers`:

```plaintextsql
mkdir suppliers
```

Third, [create a new virtual environment](https://www.pythontutorial.net/python-basics/python-virtual-environments/) called `venv` using the built\-in `venv` module:

```plaintext
python -m venv venv
```

Finally, activate the virtual environment on Windows:

```plaintext
venv/scripts/activate
```

on Unix\-like systems:

```plaintext
source venv/bin/activate
```

## Installing the psycopg2 module

First, install the `psycopg2` package using the following `pip` command:

```shell
pip install psycopg2
```

Second, create the `requirements.txt` file:

```python
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

## Creating a new database

First, [connect to the PostgreSQL server](../postgresql-getting-started/connect-to-postgresql-database) using the `psql` client tool:

```python
psql -U postgres
```

Second, [create a new database](../postgresql-administration/postgresql-create-database) called `suppliers`:

```python
CREATE DATABASE suppliers;
```

Third, exit the `psql`:

```sql
exit
```

## Connecting to the PostgreSQL database from Python

First, create a configuration file called `database.ini` in the project directory to store database connection parameters:

```python
[postgresql]
host=localhost
database=suppliers
user=YourUsername
password=YourPassword
```

In the `database.ini` file, you need to replace the `YourUsername` and `YourPassword` with the real ones.

Second, create a new file called `config.py` in the project directory and define a function called `load_config()` that reads configuration data from the `database.ini` file:

```python
from configparser import ConfigParser

def load_config(filename='database.ini', section='postgresql'):
    parser = ConfigParser()
    parser.read(filename)

    # get section, default to postgresql
    config = {}
    if parser.has_section(section):
        params = parser.items(section)
        for param in params:
            config[param[0]] = param[1]
    else:
        raise Exception('Section {0} not found in the {1} file'.format(section, filename))

    return config

if __name__ == '__main__':
    config = load_config()
    print(config)
```

The `config.py` module uses the built\-in `configparser` module to read data from the `database.ini` file.

By using the `database.ini`, you can change the PostgreSQL connection parameters when moving the code to different environments such as testing or production.

Notice that if you git source control, you need to add the `database.ini` to the `.gitignore` file to avoid committing sensitive information to a public repository like GitHub:

```python
database.ini
```

Third, create a new file called `connect.py` that uses the `config.py` module to read the database configuration and connect to the PostgreSQL:

```python
import psycopg2
from config import load_config

def connect(config):
    """ Connect to the PostgreSQL database server """
    try:
        # connecting to the PostgreSQL server
        with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
            print('Connected to the PostgreSQL server.')
            return conn
    except (psycopg2.DatabaseError, Exception) as error:
        print(error)


if __name__ == '__main__':
    config = load_config()
    connect(config)
```

To connect to the `suppliers` database, you use the `connect()` function of the `psycopg2` module.

The `connect()` function creates a new database session and returns a new instance of the `connection` class.

To call the `connect()` function, you specify the PostgreSQL database parameters as a connection string and pass it to the function like this:

```python
conn = psycopg2.connect("dbname=suppliers user=YourUsername password=YourPassword")
```

Alternatively, you can use keyword arguments:

```
conn = psycopg2.connect(
    host="localhost",
    database="suppliers",
    user="YourUsername",
    password="YourPassword"
)
```

The following is the list of the connection parameters:

- `database`: the name of the database that you want to connect.
- `user`: the username used to authenticate.
- `password`: password used to authenticate.
- `host`: database server address e.g., localhost or an IP address.
- `port`: the port number that defaults to 5432 if it is not provided.

Since we use the `config.py` module, we can pass the configuration to the `connect()` function and unpack it using the `**` operator:

```python
with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
```

In `psycopg2`, the `with` statement doesn't automatically close the database connection — only the transaction is closed. However, in `psycopg3`, using `with connection` will close the connection at the end of the `with` block. See [with connection](https://www.psycopg.org/docs/usage.html#with-statement) in the `psycopg` documentation for details.

### Executing the connect.py module

To execute the `connect.py` file, you use the following command:

```shell
python connect.py
```

Output:

```shell
Connected to the PostgreSQL server.
```

The output indicates that you have successfully connected to the PostgreSQL server.

[Download the project source code](/postgresqltutorial/connect.zip)

## Summary

- Use the `psycopg2` package to connect to the PostgreSQL server from Python.
- Call the `connect()` function of the `psycopg2` module to connect to the PostgreSQL server.
