---
label: Console
---

### What's new

- Integrations: You can now integrate Neon with your Vercel project directly from your Vercel account. The new integration, which is currently in Beta, is available from the [Vercel Integration Marketplace](https://vercel.com/integrations/neon). The integration allows you to connect your Vercel project to a new or existing Neon project. It also enables creating a database branch for each Vercel preview deployment and for your Vercel development environment. For more information about the Neon-Vercel integration, see [Connect Vercel and Neon](https://neon.tech/docs/guides/vercel).
- Control Plane: Added support for a `-pooler` option, which you can add to the hostname in your connection string to enable connection pooling with PGBouncer. For example, the following connection string uses the `-pooler` option to enable connection pooling:

    ```text
    postgres://casey@ep-square-sea-260584-pooler.us-east-2.aws.neon.tech/neondb
    ```

    The `-pooler` option forces the connection to use a separate connection pooler port, enabling you to connect to the same Neon database with and without connection pooling. This feature supports workflows that require both pooled and non-pooled connections to the same database. For example, Prisma Migrate requires a direct connection to the database, while serverless applications that use Prisma Client may require a pooled connection.
- UI: The [Neon Free Tier](/docs/introduction/technical-preview-free-tier) now includes a compute endpoint with each branch. Previously, there was a limit of 3 endpoints per project. This limit was removed based on user feedback indicating that it was not conducive to developer workflows that create a branch for each preview deployment.

    Instead of limiting the number of endpoint computes in the Neon Free Tier, there is now a limit of 100 compute hours per month. Currently, the compute hour limit applies to newly created projects only. Existing Neon projects are not yet subject to the compute hour limit. We expect to apply the limit to all projects later this quarter. Regardless of the compute hour limit, you are always able to connect the compute endpoint associated with the root branch of your Neon project.

    If you have any questions or concerns about how this change to Neon's Free Tier Limits might impact your existing project, please contact us at [support@neon.tech](mailto:support@neon.tech).
- UI: With the removal of the endpoint limit, endpoints were removed from the **Project limits** widget on the Neon **Dashboard**.

### Bug fixes

- Console: Added validation to ensure that emails are provided in the expected format when creating a Neon account.
- Control Plane: Added validation for the Log Sequence Number (LSN) provided when creating a branch from a particular LSN value to prevent the possibility of creating a branch from an unrelated parent branch. An appropriate error is now reported when an invalid LSN value is provided.
