content/postgresql/postgresql-python-transactions.md, before:

---
createdAt: 2016-06-16T07:34:12.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Transactions'
redirectFrom: 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-python/transaction
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2016-06-parts_vendors_tables.png
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to handle PostgreSQL transactions in Python.

This tutorial picks up from where the [Updating Data in a Table Tutorial](/postgresql/postgresql-python/update) left off.

## Introduction to transactions in Python

In the `psycopg2` package, the `connection` class is responsible for managing transactions.

When you send the first SQL statement to the PostgreSQL database using a `cursor` object, `psycopg2` initiates a new [transaction](/postgresql/postgresql-transaction).

Subsequentially, all the following statements are executed within the same transaction. If any statement encounters an error, `psycopg2` will abort the entire transaction.

The `connection` class has two methods for concluding a transaction:

- `commit()` - Use this method to permanently apply all changes to the PostgreSQL database.
-
- `rollback()` - Call this method to discard the changes.

Closing a connection object by calling the close() method or deleting it using `del` will also trigger an implicit rollback:

```
conn.close()
```

Or

```
del conn
```

Alternatively, you can set the `autocommit` attribute of the `connection` object to `True`. This ensures that `psycopg2` executes every statement and commits it immediately.

The `autocommit` mode can be particularly useful when executing statements that need to operate outside a transaction, such as [CREATE DATABASE](/postgresql/postgresql-administration/postgresql-create-database) and `VACUUM`.

The following shows a typical pattern for managing a transaction in `psycopg2`:

```
import psycopg2

conn = None
try:
    conn = psycopg2.connect(config)
    cur = conn.cursor()

    # execute 1st statement
    cur.execute(statement1)

    # execute 2nd statement
    cur.execute(statement2)

    # commit the transaction
    conn.commit()

    # close the cursor
    cur.close()
except psycopg2.DatabaseError as error:
    if conn:
       conn.rollback()
    print(error)
finally:
    if conn:
        conn.close()
```

## Managing transactions using context managers

Starting from `psycopg` 2.5, the connection and cursor are [context managers](https://www.pythontutorial.net/advanced-python/python-context-managers/) therefore you can use them in the `with` statement:

```
with psycopg2.connect(config) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)
```

The `psycopg2` commits the transaction if no exception occurs within the `with` block, otherwise, it rolls back the transaction.

Unlike other [context manager](https://www.pythontutorial.net/advanced-python/python-context-managers/) objects, exiting the `with` block does not close the connection but only terminates the transaction. Consequentially, you can use the same `connection` object in the subsequent `with` statements in another transaction as follows:

```
conn = psycopg2.connect(config)

# transaction 1
with conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)

# transaction 2
with conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)

conn.close()
```

## PostgreSQL transaction example

We will use the `parts` and `vendor_parts` tables in the `suppliers` database:

![parts_vendors_tables](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2016-06-parts_vendors_tables.png)

Suppose you need to add a new part and assign the vendors who supply the part at the same time.

To achieve this, you can do as follows:

- First, [insert a new row](/postgresql/postgresql-insert) into the `parts` table and get the part id.
-
- Then, insert rows into the `vendor_parts` table.

The following `add_part()` function demonstrates the steps:

```
import psycopg2
from config import load_config


def add_part(part_name, vendor_list):
    # statement for inserting a new row into the parts table
    insert_part = "INSERT INTO parts(part_name) VALUES(%s) RETURNING part_id;"

    # statement for inserting a new row into the vendor_parts table
    assign_vendor = "INSERT INTO vendor_parts(vendor_id,part_id) VALUES(%s,%s)"

    conn = None
    config = load_config()

    try:
        with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
            with conn.cursor() as cur:
                # insert a new part
                cur.execute(insert_part, (part_name,))

                # get the part id
                row = cur.fetchone()
                if row:
                    part_id = row[0]
                else:
                    raise Exception('Could not get the part id')

                # assign parts provided by vendors
                for vendor_id in vendor_list:
                    cur.execute(assign_vendor, (vendor_id, part_id))

                # commit the transaction
                conn.commit()
    except (Exception, psycopg2.DatabaseError) as error:
        if conn:
            conn.rollback()

        print(error)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    add_part('SIM Tray', (1, 2))
    add_part('Speaker', (3, 4))
    add_part('Vibrator', (5, 6))
    add_part('Antenna', (6, 7))
    add_part('Home Button', (1, 5))
    add_part('LTE Modem', (1, 5))
```

### 2) Execute the transaction.py module

First, open the Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Unix-like systems.

Second, run the following command to execute the `transaction.py` module:

```
python transaction.py
```

### 3) Verify transaction

First, connect to the `suppliers` on the PostgreSQL server:

```
psql -U postgres -d suppliers
```

Second, retrieve data from the `parts` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM parts;
```

Output:

```
 part_id |  part_name
---------+-------------
       1 | SIM Tray
       2 | Speaker
       3 | Vibrator
       4 | Antenna
       5 | Home Button
       6 | LTE Modem
(6 rows)
```

Third, query data from the `vendor_parts` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM vendor_parts;
```

Output:

```
 vendor_id | part_id
-----------+---------
         1 |       1
         2 |       1
         3 |       2
         4 |       2
         5 |       3
         6 |       3
         6 |       4
         7 |       4
         1 |       5
         5 |       5
         1 |       6
         5 |       6
(12 rows)
```

### 4) Test a failed transaction

Let's insert another part, but this time, we intentionally use an invalid vendor id for demonstration purposes.

The program should not add a new part without assigning it to a vendor.

```
if __name__ == '__main__':
    # no rows inserted into the parts and vendor_parts tables
    add_part('Power Amplifier', (99,))
```

An exception occurred.

```
insert or update on table "vendor_parts" violates foreign key constraint "vendor_parts_vendor_id_fkey"
DETAIL:  Key (vendor_id)=(99) is not present in table "vendors".
```

You can query data from the `parts` and `vendor_parts` tables again. There will be no new data, meaning that the program works as expected.

[Download the project source code](/postgresqltutorial_data/transaction.zip)

## Summary

- Use the `commit()` method to permanently apply all changes to the database.
-
- Use the `rollback()` method to discard the changes.

Commit message:

docs: add metadata for next/prev posts

content/postgresql/postgresql-python-transactions.md, after:

---
prevPost: /postgresql/postgresql-php-transaction
nextPost: /postgresql/how-to-get-sizes-of-database-objects-in-postgresql
createdAt: 2016-06-16T07:34:12.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL Python: Transactions'
redirectFrom: 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-python/transaction
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2016-06-parts_vendors_tables.png
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to handle PostgreSQL transactions in Python.

This tutorial picks up from where the [Updating Data in a Table Tutorial](/postgresql/postgresql-python/update) left off.

## Introduction to transactions in Python

In the `psycopg2` package, the `connection` class is responsible for managing transactions.

When you send the first SQL statement to the PostgreSQL database using a `cursor` object, `psycopg2` initiates a new [transaction](/postgresql/postgresql-transaction).

Subsequentially, all the following statements are executed within the same transaction. If any statement encounters an error, `psycopg2` will abort the entire transaction.

The `connection` class has two methods for concluding a transaction:

- `commit()` - Use this method to permanently apply all changes to the PostgreSQL database.
-
- `rollback()` - Call this method to discard the changes.

Closing a connection object by calling the close() method or deleting it using `del` will also trigger an implicit rollback:

```
conn.close()
```

Or

```
del conn
```

Alternatively, you can set the `autocommit` attribute of the `connection` object to `True`. This ensures that `psycopg2` executes every statement and commits it immediately.

The `autocommit` mode can be particularly useful when executing statements that need to operate outside a transaction, such as [CREATE DATABASE](/postgresql/postgresql-administration/postgresql-create-database) and `VACUUM`.

The following shows a typical pattern for managing a transaction in `psycopg2`:

```
import psycopg2

conn = None
try:
    conn = psycopg2.connect(config)
    cur = conn.cursor()

    # execute 1st statement
    cur.execute(statement1)

    # execute 2nd statement
    cur.execute(statement2)

    # commit the transaction
    conn.commit()

    # close the cursor
    cur.close()
except psycopg2.DatabaseError as error:
    if conn:
       conn.rollback()
    print(error)
finally:
    if conn:
        conn.close()
```

## Managing transactions using context managers

Starting from `psycopg` 2.5, the connection and cursor are [context managers](https://www.pythontutorial.net/advanced-python/python-context-managers/) therefore you can use them in the `with` statement:

```
with psycopg2.connect(config) as conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)
```

The `psycopg2` commits the transaction if no exception occurs within the `with` block, otherwise, it rolls back the transaction.

Unlike other [context manager](https://www.pythontutorial.net/advanced-python/python-context-managers/) objects, exiting the `with` block does not close the connection but only terminates the transaction. Consequentially, you can use the same `connection` object in the subsequent `with` statements in another transaction as follows:

```
conn = psycopg2.connect(config)

# transaction 1
with conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)

# transaction 2
with conn:
    with conn.cursor() as cur:
        cur.execute(sql)

conn.close()
```

## PostgreSQL transaction example

We will use the `parts` and `vendor_parts` tables in the `suppliers` database:

![parts_vendors_tables](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2016-06-parts_vendors_tables.png)

Suppose you need to add a new part and assign the vendors who supply the part at the same time.

To achieve this, you can do as follows:

- First, [insert a new row](/postgresql/postgresql-insert) into the `parts` table and get the part id.
-
- Then, insert rows into the `vendor_parts` table.

The following `add_part()` function demonstrates the steps:

```
import psycopg2
from config import load_config


def add_part(part_name, vendor_list):
    # statement for inserting a new row into the parts table
    insert_part = "INSERT INTO parts(part_name) VALUES(%s) RETURNING part_id;"

    # statement for inserting a new row into the vendor_parts table
    assign_vendor = "INSERT INTO vendor_parts(vendor_id,part_id) VALUES(%s,%s)"

    conn = None
    config = load_config()

    try:
        with psycopg2.connect(**config) as conn:
            with conn.cursor() as cur:
                # insert a new part
                cur.execute(insert_part, (part_name,))

                # get the part id
                row = cur.fetchone()
                if row:
                    part_id = row[0]
                else:
                    raise Exception('Could not get the part id')

                # assign parts provided by vendors
                for vendor_id in vendor_list:
                    cur.execute(assign_vendor, (vendor_id, part_id))

                # commit the transaction
                conn.commit()
    except (Exception, psycopg2.DatabaseError) as error:
        if conn:
            conn.rollback()

        print(error)

if __name__ == '__main__':
    add_part('SIM Tray', (1, 2))
    add_part('Speaker', (3, 4))
    add_part('Vibrator', (5, 6))
    add_part('Antenna', (6, 7))
    add_part('Home Button', (1, 5))
    add_part('LTE Modem', (1, 5))
```

### 2) Execute the transaction.py module

First, open the Command Prompt on Windows or Terminal on Unix-like systems.

Second, run the following command to execute the `transaction.py` module:

```
python transaction.py
```

### 3) Verify transaction

First, connect to the `suppliers` on the PostgreSQL server:

```
psql -U postgres -d suppliers
```

Second, retrieve data from the `parts` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM parts;
```

Output:

```
 part_id |  part_name
---------+-------------
       1 | SIM Tray
       2 | Speaker
       3 | Vibrator
       4 | Antenna
       5 | Home Button
       6 | LTE Modem
(6 rows)
```

Third, query data from the `vendor_parts` table:

```sql
SELECT * FROM vendor_parts;
```

Output:

```
 vendor_id | part_id
-----------+---------
         1 |       1
         2 |       1
         3 |       2
         4 |       2
         5 |       3
         6 |       3
         6 |       4
         7 |       4
         1 |       5
         5 |       5
         1 |       6
         5 |       6
(12 rows)
```

### 4) Test a failed transaction

Let's insert another part, but this time, we intentionally use an invalid vendor id for demonstration purposes.

The program should not add a new part without assigning it to a vendor.

```
if __name__ == '__main__':
    # no rows inserted into the parts and vendor_parts tables
    add_part('Power Amplifier', (99,))
```

An exception occurred.

```
insert or update on table "vendor_parts" violates foreign key constraint "vendor_parts_vendor_id_fkey"
DETAIL:  Key (vendor_id)=(99) is not present in table "vendors".
```

You can query data from the `parts` and `vendor_parts` tables again. There will be no new data, meaning that the program works as expected.

[Download the project source code](/postgresqltutorial_data/transaction.zip)

## Summary

- Use the `commit()` method to permanently apply all changes to the database.
-
- Use the `rollback()` method to discard the changes.
