content/postgresql/postgresql-explain.md, before:

---
createdAt: 2018-12-02T08:40:09.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL EXPLAIN'
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-simple-query.png
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you have learned how to use the PostgreSQL `EXPLAIN` statement to display the execution plan of a statement.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL EXPLAIN statement

The `EXPLAIN` statement returns the execution plan which PostgreSQL planner generates for a given statement.

The `EXPLAIN` shows how tables involved in a statement will be scanned by index scan or sequential scan, etc., and if multiple tables are used, what kind of join algorithm will be used.

The most important and useful information that the `EXPLAIN` statement returns are start-cost before the first row can be returned and the total cost to return the complete result set.

The following shows the syntax of the `EXPLAIN` statement:

```sql
EXPLAIN [ ( option [, ...] ) ] sql_statement;
```

where `option` can be one of the following:

```sql
ANALYZE [ boolean ]
VERBOSE [ boolean ]
COSTS [ boolean ]
BUFFERS [ boolean ]
TIMING [ boolean ]
SUMMARY [ boolean ]
FORMAT { TEXT | XML | JSON | YAML }
```

The `boolean` specifies whether the selected option should be turned on or off. You can use `TRUE`, `ON`, or `1` to enable the option, and `FALSE`, `OFF`, or `0` to disable it. If you omit the boolean, it defaults to `ON`.

### `ANALYZE`

The `ANALYZE` option causes the `sql_statement` to be executed first and then actual run-time statistics in the returned information including total elapsed time expended within each plan node and the number of rows it returned.

The `ANALYZE` statement executes the SQL statement and discards the output information, therefore, if you want to analyze any statement such as `INSERT`, [`UPDATE`](/postgresql/postgresql-update), or `DELETE` without affecting the data, you should wrap the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` in a transaction, as follows:

```sql
BEGIN;
    EXPLAIN ANALYZE sql_statement;
ROLLBACK;
```

### `VERBOSE`

The `VERBOSE` parameter allows you to show additional information regarding the plan. This parameter sets to `FALSE` by default.

### `COSTS`

The `COSTS` option includes the estimated startup and total costs of each plan node, as well as the estimated number of rows and the estimated width of each row in the query plan. The `COSTS` defaults to `TRUE`.

### `BUFFERS`

This parameter adds information to the buffer usage. `BUFFERS` only can be used when `ANALYZE` is enabled. By default, the `BUFFERS` parameter set to `FALSE`.

### `TIMING`

This parameter includes the actual startup time and time spent in each node in the output. The `TIMING` defaults to `TRUE` and it may only be used when `ANALYZE` is enabled.

### `SUMMARY`

The `SUMMARY` parameter adds summary information such as total timing after the query plan. Note that when `ANALYZE` option is used, the summary information is included by default.

### `FORMAT`

Specify the output format of the query plan such as `TEXT`, `XML`, `JSON`, and `YAML`. This parameter is set to `TEXT` by default.

## PostgreSQL EXPLAIN examples

The following statement shows the plan for a simple query on the `film` table:

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM film;
```

The output is as follows:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a simple query](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-simple-query.png)

The following example shows the plan for a query that returns a film by a specific `film_id`.

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM film WHERE film_id = 100;
```

Here is the output:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a query with an index](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-query-with-an-index.png)

Because the `film_id` is indexed, the statement returned a different plan. In the output, the planner used an index scan instead of a sequential scan on the `film` table.

To suppress the cost, you can use the `COSTS` option:

```sql
EXPLAIN (COSTS FALSE) SELECT
    *
FROM
    film
WHERE
    film_id = 100;
```

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan without costs](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-without-costs.png)

The following example displays the plan for a query that uses an aggregate function:

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT COUNT(*) FROM film;
```

The output is:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan with an aggregate function](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-with-an-aggregate-function.png)

The following example returns a plan for a statement that joins multiple tables:

```sql
EXPLAIN
SELECT
    f.film_id,
    title,
    name category_name
FROM
    film f
    INNER JOIN film_category fc
        ON fc.film_id = f.film_id
    INNER JOIN category c
        ON c.category_id = fc.category_id
ORDER BY
    title;
```

The output is:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a join](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-join.png)

To add the actual runtime statistics to the output, you need to execute the statement using the `ANALYZE` option:

```sql
EXPLAIN ANALYZE
    SELECT
        f.film_id,
        title,
        name category_name
    FROM
        film f
        INNER JOIN film_category fc
            ON fc.film_id = f.film_id
        INNER JOIN category c
            ON c.category_id = fc.category_id
    ORDER BY
        title;
```

Here is the output:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN ANALYZE output](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-ANALYZE-output.png)

In this tutorial, you have learned how to use the PostgreSQL `EXPLAIN` statement to show the query's plan for a specific SQL statement.

Commit message:

docs: add metadata for next/prev posts

content/postgresql/postgresql-explain.md, after:

---
prevPost: /postgresql/postgresql-cast-convert-a-value-of-one-type-to-another
nextPost: /postgresql/postgresql-distinct-on
createdAt: 2018-12-02T08:40:09.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL EXPLAIN'
ogImage: /postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-simple-query.png
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you have learned how to use the PostgreSQL `EXPLAIN` statement to display the execution plan of a statement.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL EXPLAIN statement

The `EXPLAIN` statement returns the execution plan which PostgreSQL planner generates for a given statement.

The `EXPLAIN` shows how tables involved in a statement will be scanned by index scan or sequential scan, etc., and if multiple tables are used, what kind of join algorithm will be used.

The most important and useful information that the `EXPLAIN` statement returns are start-cost before the first row can be returned and the total cost to return the complete result set.

The following shows the syntax of the `EXPLAIN` statement:

```sql
EXPLAIN [ ( option [, ...] ) ] sql_statement;
```

where `option` can be one of the following:

```sql
ANALYZE [ boolean ]
VERBOSE [ boolean ]
COSTS [ boolean ]
BUFFERS [ boolean ]
TIMING [ boolean ]
SUMMARY [ boolean ]
FORMAT { TEXT | XML | JSON | YAML }
```

The `boolean` specifies whether the selected option should be turned on or off. You can use `TRUE`, `ON`, or `1` to enable the option, and `FALSE`, `OFF`, or `0` to disable it. If you omit the boolean, it defaults to `ON`.

### `ANALYZE`

The `ANALYZE` option causes the `sql_statement` to be executed first and then actual run-time statistics in the returned information including total elapsed time expended within each plan node and the number of rows it returned.

The `ANALYZE` statement executes the SQL statement and discards the output information, therefore, if you want to analyze any statement such as `INSERT`, [`UPDATE`](/postgresql/postgresql-update), or `DELETE` without affecting the data, you should wrap the `EXPLAIN ANALYZE` in a transaction, as follows:

```sql
BEGIN;
    EXPLAIN ANALYZE sql_statement;
ROLLBACK;
```

### `VERBOSE`

The `VERBOSE` parameter allows you to show additional information regarding the plan. This parameter sets to `FALSE` by default.

### `COSTS`

The `COSTS` option includes the estimated startup and total costs of each plan node, as well as the estimated number of rows and the estimated width of each row in the query plan. The `COSTS` defaults to `TRUE`.

### `BUFFERS`

This parameter adds information to the buffer usage. `BUFFERS` only can be used when `ANALYZE` is enabled. By default, the `BUFFERS` parameter set to `FALSE`.

### `TIMING`

This parameter includes the actual startup time and time spent in each node in the output. The `TIMING` defaults to `TRUE` and it may only be used when `ANALYZE` is enabled.

### `SUMMARY`

The `SUMMARY` parameter adds summary information such as total timing after the query plan. Note that when `ANALYZE` option is used, the summary information is included by default.

### `FORMAT`

Specify the output format of the query plan such as `TEXT`, `XML`, `JSON`, and `YAML`. This parameter is set to `TEXT` by default.

## PostgreSQL EXPLAIN examples

The following statement shows the plan for a simple query on the `film` table:

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM film;
```

The output is as follows:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a simple query](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-simple-query.png)

The following example shows the plan for a query that returns a film by a specific `film_id`.

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT * FROM film WHERE film_id = 100;
```

Here is the output:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a query with an index](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-query-with-an-index.png)

Because the `film_id` is indexed, the statement returned a different plan. In the output, the planner used an index scan instead of a sequential scan on the `film` table.

To suppress the cost, you can use the `COSTS` option:

```sql
EXPLAIN (COSTS FALSE) SELECT
    *
FROM
    film
WHERE
    film_id = 100;
```

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan without costs](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-without-costs.png)

The following example displays the plan for a query that uses an aggregate function:

```sql
EXPLAIN SELECT COUNT(*) FROM film;
```

The output is:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan with an aggregate function](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-with-an-aggregate-function.png)

The following example returns a plan for a statement that joins multiple tables:

```sql
EXPLAIN
SELECT
    f.film_id,
    title,
    name category_name
FROM
    film f
    INNER JOIN film_category fc
        ON fc.film_id = f.film_id
    INNER JOIN category c
        ON c.category_id = fc.category_id
ORDER BY
    title;
```

The output is:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN - shows plan for a join](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-shows-plan-for-a-join.png)

To add the actual runtime statistics to the output, you need to execute the statement using the `ANALYZE` option:

```sql
EXPLAIN ANALYZE
    SELECT
        f.film_id,
        title,
        name category_name
    FROM
        film f
        INNER JOIN film_category fc
            ON fc.film_id = f.film_id
        INNER JOIN category c
            ON c.category_id = fc.category_id
    ORDER BY
        title;
```

Here is the output:

![PostgreSQL EXPLAIN ANALYZE output](/postgresqltutorial_data/wp-content-uploads-2018-12-PostgreSQL-EXPLAIN-ANALYZE-output.png)

In this tutorial, you have learned how to use the PostgreSQL `EXPLAIN` statement to show the query's plan for a specific SQL statement.
