content/postgresql/postgresql-drop-function.md, before:

---
createdAt: 2020-07-25T10:56:57.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL Drop Function'
redirectFrom:
            - /postgresql/postgresql-drop 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-plpgsql/postgresql-drop-function
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `drop function` statement to remove a function.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL DROP FUNCTION statement

To remove a user-defined function, you use the `drop function` statement.

Here's the syntax of the `drop function` statement:

```
drop function [if exists] function_name(argument_list)
[cascade | restrict]
```

In this syntax:

- First, specify the name of the function that you want to remove after the `drop function` keywords.
- Second, use the `if exists` option if you want to instruct PostgreSQL to issue a notice instead of an error if the function does not exist.
- Third, specify the argument list of the function. Since [functions can be overloaded,](/postgresql/postgresql-plpgsql/plpgsql-function-overloading) PostgreSQL needs to know which function you want to remove by checking the argument list. If a function is unique within the schema, you do not need to specify the argument list.

When a function has any dependent objects such as operators or [triggers](/postgresql/postgresql-triggers), you cannot drop that function.

To drop the function and its dependent objects, you can use the `cascade` option. The `drop function` with the `cascade` option will recursively remove the function, its dependent objects, and the objects that depend on those objects, and so on.

By default, the `drop function` statement uses the `restrict` option that rejects the removal of a function when it has any dependent objects.

To drop multiple functions using a single `drop function` statement, you specify a comma-separated list of function names after the `drop function` keyword like this:

```
drop function [if exists] function1, function2, ...;
```

## PostgreSQL Drop Function examples

The following statement uses the `create function` statement to define a function that returns a set of films including `film_id`, `title`, and `actor`:

```
create or replace function get_film_actors()
 returns setof record
as $$
declare
   rec record;
begin
   for rec in select
   film_id,
   title,
            (first_name || ' ' || last_name)::varchar
  from film
  inner join film_actor using(film_id)
  inner join actor using (actor_id)
  order by title
 loop
        return next rec;
 end loop;

 return;
end;
$$
language plpgsql;
```

The following statement defines a function with the same name `get_film_actors`. However, it accepts a film id as the argument:

```
create or replace function get_film_actors(p_fiml_id int)
 returns setof record
as $$
declare
   rec record;
begin
   for rec in select
   film_id,
   title,
            (first_name || ' ' || last_name)::varchar
  from film
  inner join film_actor using(film_id)
  inner join actor using (actor_id)
  where film_id = p_fiml_id
  order by title
 loop
        return next rec;
 end loop;

 return;
end;
$$
language plpgsql;
```

The following statement attempts to drop the `get_film_actors` function:

```
drop function get_film_actors;
```

PostgreSQL issued an error:

```sql
ERROR:  function name "get_film_actors" is not unique
HINT:  Specify the argument list to select the function unambiguously.
SQL state: 42725
```

Since the `get_film_actors` stored procedure is not unique, you need to specify which function you want to drop.

The following statement drops the `get_film_actors` function that has zero parameters:

```
drop function get_film_actors();
```

Now, there is only one `get_film_actors` function left. Since it is unique in the database, you can drop it without specifying its argument list like this:

```
drop function get_film_actors;
```

Alternatively, if you want to specify the exact function, you can use the function name with the argument list:

```
drop function get_film_actors(int);
```

## Summary

- Use the `drop function` statement to delete a function from a database.
- Specify the argument list in the function if the function is overloaded.
- Use the `drop function` statement with the `cascade` option to drop a function and its dependent objects and objects that depend on those objects, and so on.

Commit message:

docs: add metadata for next/prev posts

content/postgresql/postgresql-drop-function.md, after:

---
prevPost: /postgresql/how-to-change-the-password-of-a-postgresql-user
nextPost: /postgresql/postgresql-trim_scale-function
createdAt: 2020-07-25T10:56:57.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL Drop Function'
redirectFrom:
            - /postgresql/postgresql-drop 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-plpgsql/postgresql-drop-function
tableOfContents: true
---

**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `drop function` statement to remove a function.

## Introduction to PostgreSQL DROP FUNCTION statement

To remove a user-defined function, you use the `drop function` statement.

Here's the syntax of the `drop function` statement:

```
drop function [if exists] function_name(argument_list)
[cascade | restrict]
```

In this syntax:

- First, specify the name of the function that you want to remove after the `drop function` keywords.
- Second, use the `if exists` option if you want to instruct PostgreSQL to issue a notice instead of an error if the function does not exist.
- Third, specify the argument list of the function. Since [functions can be overloaded,](/postgresql/postgresql-plpgsql/plpgsql-function-overloading) PostgreSQL needs to know which function you want to remove by checking the argument list. If a function is unique within the schema, you do not need to specify the argument list.

When a function has any dependent objects such as operators or [triggers](/postgresql/postgresql-triggers), you cannot drop that function.

To drop the function and its dependent objects, you can use the `cascade` option. The `drop function` with the `cascade` option will recursively remove the function, its dependent objects, and the objects that depend on those objects, and so on.

By default, the `drop function` statement uses the `restrict` option that rejects the removal of a function when it has any dependent objects.

To drop multiple functions using a single `drop function` statement, you specify a comma-separated list of function names after the `drop function` keyword like this:

```
drop function [if exists] function1, function2, ...;
```

## PostgreSQL Drop Function examples

The following statement uses the `create function` statement to define a function that returns a set of films including `film_id`, `title`, and `actor`:

```
create or replace function get_film_actors()
 returns setof record
as $$
declare
   rec record;
begin
   for rec in select
   film_id,
   title,
            (first_name || ' ' || last_name)::varchar
  from film
  inner join film_actor using(film_id)
  inner join actor using (actor_id)
  order by title
 loop
        return next rec;
 end loop;

 return;
end;
$$
language plpgsql;
```

The following statement defines a function with the same name `get_film_actors`. However, it accepts a film id as the argument:

```
create or replace function get_film_actors(p_fiml_id int)
 returns setof record
as $$
declare
   rec record;
begin
   for rec in select
   film_id,
   title,
            (first_name || ' ' || last_name)::varchar
  from film
  inner join film_actor using(film_id)
  inner join actor using (actor_id)
  where film_id = p_fiml_id
  order by title
 loop
        return next rec;
 end loop;

 return;
end;
$$
language plpgsql;
```

The following statement attempts to drop the `get_film_actors` function:

```
drop function get_film_actors;
```

PostgreSQL issued an error:

```sql
ERROR:  function name "get_film_actors" is not unique
HINT:  Specify the argument list to select the function unambiguously.
SQL state: 42725
```

Since the `get_film_actors` stored procedure is not unique, you need to specify which function you want to drop.

The following statement drops the `get_film_actors` function that has zero parameters:

```
drop function get_film_actors();
```

Now, there is only one `get_film_actors` function left. Since it is unique in the database, you can drop it without specifying its argument list like this:

```
drop function get_film_actors;
```

Alternatively, if you want to specify the exact function, you can use the function name with the argument list:

```
drop function get_film_actors(int);
```

## Summary

- Use the `drop function` statement to delete a function from a database.
- Specify the argument list in the function if the function is overloaded.
- Use the `drop function` statement with the `cascade` option to drop a function and its dependent objects and objects that depend on those objects, and so on.
