content/postgresql/postgresql-jsonb_path_query-function.md, before:

---
createdAt: 2024-02-23T13:39:45.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() Function'
redirectFrom:
            - /postgresql/postgresql-jsonb_path_query 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-json-functions/postgresql-jsonb_path_query
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `jsonb_path_query()` function to query `JSONB` data using JSON path expressions.

## Introduction to the PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() function

The `jsonb_path_query()` function allows you to query [JSONB](/postgresql/postgresql-json) data based on a JSON path expression.

Here's the basic syntax of the `jsonb_path_query()` function:

```
jsonb_path_query(jsonb_data, path_expression)
```

In this syntax:

- `jsonb_data` is the JSONB data that you want to query.
-
- `path_expression` is a JSON path expression that locates values or elements in the JSONB data.

The `jsonb_path_query()` function returns JSONB data that matches the specified JSON path expression.

If the `path_expression` does not locate any element in the `jsonb_data`, the function returns `NULL`.

## PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() function example

Let's take some examples of using the `jsonb_path_query()` function.

### Setting up a sample table

First, [create a table](/postgresql/postgresql-create-table) named `products`with a JSONB column names `attributes` to store product attributes:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
    attributes JSONB
);
```

Second, [insert some rows](/postgresql/postgresql-insert-multiple-rows) into the `products` table:

```sql
INSERT INTO products (name, attributes)
VALUES
    ('Laptop', '{"brand": "Dell", "price": 1200, "specs": {"cpu": "Intel i7", "ram": "16GB"}}'),
    ('Smartphone', '{"brand": "Samsung", "price": 800, "specs": {"os": "Android", "storage": "128GB"}}');
```

### 1) A basic jsonb_path_query() function example

The following example uses the `jsonb_path_query()` function to retrieve the brand and price of all products:

```sql
SELECT jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.brand') AS brand,
       jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.price') AS price
FROM products;
```

Output:

```
   brand   | price
-----------+-------
 "Dell"    | 1200
 "Samsung" | 800
(2 rows)
```

### 2) More complex JSON path example

The following example uses the `jsonb_path_query()` function to query nested attributes such as retrieving the CPU specification of laptops:

```sql
SELECT jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.specs.cpu') AS cpu
FROM products;
```

Output:

```
    cpu
------------
 "Intel i7"
(1 row)
```

## Summary

- Use the `jsonb_path_query()` function to query JSONB data based on JSON path expressions.

Commit message:

docs: add metadata for next/prev posts

content/postgresql/postgresql-jsonb_path_query-function.md, after:

---
prevPost: /postgresql/how-to-change-the-owner-of-a-postgresql-database
nextPost: /postgresql/postgresql-bool_and-function
createdAt: 2024-02-23T13:39:45.000Z
title: 'PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() Function'
redirectFrom:
            - /postgresql/postgresql-jsonb_path_query 
            - /postgresql/postgresql-json-functions/postgresql-jsonb_path_query
tableOfContents: true
---


**Summary**: in this tutorial, you will learn how to use the PostgreSQL `jsonb_path_query()` function to query `JSONB` data using JSON path expressions.

## Introduction to the PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() function

The `jsonb_path_query()` function allows you to query [JSONB](/postgresql/postgresql-json) data based on a JSON path expression.

Here's the basic syntax of the `jsonb_path_query()` function:

```
jsonb_path_query(jsonb_data, path_expression)
```

In this syntax:

- `jsonb_data` is the JSONB data that you want to query.
-
- `path_expression` is a JSON path expression that locates values or elements in the JSONB data.

The `jsonb_path_query()` function returns JSONB data that matches the specified JSON path expression.

If the `path_expression` does not locate any element in the `jsonb_data`, the function returns `NULL`.

## PostgreSQL jsonb_path_query() function example

Let's take some examples of using the `jsonb_path_query()` function.

### Setting up a sample table

First, [create a table](/postgresql/postgresql-create-table) named `products`with a JSONB column names `attributes` to store product attributes:

```sql
CREATE TABLE products (
    id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(100) NOT NULL,
    attributes JSONB
);
```

Second, [insert some rows](/postgresql/postgresql-insert-multiple-rows) into the `products` table:

```sql
INSERT INTO products (name, attributes)
VALUES
    ('Laptop', '{"brand": "Dell", "price": 1200, "specs": {"cpu": "Intel i7", "ram": "16GB"}}'),
    ('Smartphone', '{"brand": "Samsung", "price": 800, "specs": {"os": "Android", "storage": "128GB"}}');
```

### 1) A basic jsonb_path_query() function example

The following example uses the `jsonb_path_query()` function to retrieve the brand and price of all products:

```sql
SELECT jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.brand') AS brand,
       jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.price') AS price
FROM products;
```

Output:

```
   brand   | price
-----------+-------
 "Dell"    | 1200
 "Samsung" | 800
(2 rows)
```

### 2) More complex JSON path example

The following example uses the `jsonb_path_query()` function to query nested attributes such as retrieving the CPU specification of laptops:

```sql
SELECT jsonb_path_query(attributes, '$.specs.cpu') AS cpu
FROM products;
```

Output:

```
    cpu
------------
 "Intel i7"
(1 row)
```

## Summary

- Use the `jsonb_path_query()` function to query JSONB data based on JSON path expressions.
