content/docs/ai/ai-intro.md, before:

---
title: AI & Embeddings
subtitle: Build AI applications with Neon Postgres as your vector database
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.043Z'
---

Vector databases enable efficient storage and retrieval of vector data, which is an essential component in building AI applications that leverage Large Language Models (LLMs).

Neon supports the `pgvector` open-source extension, which enables Postgres as a vector database for storing and querying embeddings. This means you can leverage the open-source database that you trust as your vector store and forget about migrating data or adding a third-party vector storage solution.

Neon's AI Starter Kit provides resources, starter apps, and examples to help get you started.

<CTA title="Ship faster with Neon's AI Starter Kit" description="Sign up for Neon Postgres and jumpstart your AI application. Our starter apps and resources will help you get up and running." buttonText="Sign Up" buttonUrl="https://console.neon.tech/signup" />

The **Neon AI Starter Kit** includes:

- Neon Postgres with the latest version of the Postgres [pgvector](/docs/extensions/pgvector) extension for storing vector embeddings
- A variety of hackable, pre-built [AI starter apps](#ai-starter-apps):
  - AI chat
  - RAG chat
  - Semantic search
  - Hybrid search
  - Reverse image search
  - Chat with PDF
- A [vector search optimization guide](/docs/ai/ai-vector-search-optimization) for better AI application performance
- A [scaling guide](/docs/ai/ai-scale-with-neon) for scaling your app with Neon's Autoscaling and Read Replica features
- A collection of [AI apps built with Neon](#ai-apps-built-with-neon) that you can reference while building your own app

## AI basics

<DetailIconCards>
<a href="/docs/ai/ai-concepts" description="Learn how embeddings are used to build AI applications" icon="openai">AI concepts</a>

<a href="/docs/extensions/pgvector" description="Learn about the pgvector Postgres extension" icon="openai">The pgvector extension</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## AI starter apps

Hackable, fully-featured, pre-built [starter apps](#ai-starter-apps) to get you up and running.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/chatbot-nextjs" description="A Next.js AI chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">AI chatbot (OpenAI + LllamIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/chatbot-nextjs" description="A Next.js AI chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">AI chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/rag-nextjs" description="A Next.js RAG chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">RAG chatbot (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/rag-nextjs" description="A Next.js RAG chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">RAG chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/semantic-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Semantic Search chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Semantic search chatbot (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/semantic-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Semantic Search chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">Semantic search chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/hybrid-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Hybrid Search starter app built with OpenAI" icon="github">Hybrid search (OpenAI)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/reverse-image-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Reverse Image Search Engine starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Reverse image search (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/chat-with-pdf-nextjs" description="A Next.js Chat with PDF chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Chat with PDF (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/chat-with-pdf-nextjs" description="A Next.js Chat with PDF chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">Chat with PDF (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## AI integrations

Learn how to integrate Neon Postgres with LLMs and AI platforms.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="/docs/ai/langchain" description="Learn how to use LangChain with OpenAI to create AI applications faster" icon="langchain">LangChain (with OpenAI)</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/llamaindex" description="Learn how to use LlamaIndex with OpenAI to create AI applications faster" icon="llamaindex">LlamaIndex (with OpenAI)</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## Preparing your AI app for production

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="ai-vector-search-optimization" description="Optimize pgvector search for better application performance" icon="openai">Optimize pgvector search</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-scale-with-neon" description="Scale your AI app with Neon's Autoscaling and Read Replica features" icon="openai">Scale with Neon</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## AI apps built with Neon

AI applications built with Neon Postgres that you can reference as code examples or inspiration.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Feature your app here">
Share your AI app on our **#showcase** channel on [Discord](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp) for consideration.
</Admonition>

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/ai-vector-db-per-tenant" description="Deploy an AI vector database per-tenant architecture with Neon" icon="github">AI vector database per tenant</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/guides/chatbot-astro-postgres-llamaindex" description="Build a RAG chatbot in an Astro application with LlamaIndex and Postgres" icon="openai">Guide: Build a RAG chatbot</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/guides/llamaindex-postgres-search-images" description="Using LlamaIndex with Postgres to Build your own Reverse Image Search Engine" icon="openai">Guide: Build a Reverse Image Search Engine</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/ask-neon" description="An Ask Neon AI-powered chatbot built with pgvector" icon="github">Ask Neon Chatbot</a>

<a href="https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/postgres-pgvector" description="Enable vector similarity search with Vercel Postgres powered by Neon" icon="github">Vercel Postgres pgvector Starter</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/yc-idea-matcher" description="YCombinator semantic search application" icon="github">YCombinator Semantic Search App</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/postgres-ai-playground" description="An AI-enabled SQL playground application for natural language queries" icon="github">Web-based AI SQL Playground</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-vector-search-openai-notebooks" description="Jupyter Notebook for vector search with Neon, pgvector, and OpenAI" icon="github">Jupyter Notebook for vector search with Neon</a>

<a href="https://github.com/ItzCrazyKns/Neon-Image-Search" description="Community: An image serch app built with Neon and Vertex AI" icon="github">Image search with Neon and Vertex AI</a>

<a href="https://github.com/mistralai/cookbook/blob/main/third_party/Neon/neon_text_to_sql.ipynb" description="A Text-to-SQL conversion app built with Mistral AI, Neon, and LangChain" icon="github">Text-to-SQL conversion with Mistral + LangChain</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/blog/openais-gpt-store-is-live-create-and-publish-a-custom-postgres-gpt-expert" description="Blog + repo: Create and publish a custom Postgres GPT Expert using OpenAI's GPT" icon="openai">Postgres GPT Expert</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## AI tools

Learn about popular AI tools and how to use them with Neon Postgres.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-google-colab" description="A cloud-based environment to write and execute Python code, perfect for machine learning and data science tasks" icon="openai">Google Colab</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-azure-notebooks" description="A cloud-based Jupyter notebook service integrated with Azure Data Studio for creating, running, and sharing notebooks" icon="openai">Azure Data Studio Notebooks</a>

</DetailIconCards>

Commit message:

docs: update ai docs for agents

content/docs/ai/ai-intro.md, after:

---
title: AI & Embeddings
subtitle: Power AI agents with serverless Postgres — and build AI applications with Neon as your vector database
enableTableOfContents: true
updatedOn: '2024-11-30T11:53:56.043Z'
---

Neon enables AI agents to provision Postgres databases in seconds, execute SQL queries, and easily manage Neon infrastructure. With one-second provision times, scale-to-zero compute, and agent-friendly Neon API interfaces, Neon lets AI agents manage database fleets at scale while minimizing costs. [Learn more about this use case](https://neon.tech/use-cases/ai-agents).

Neon also supports vector data, a key component for AI applications. With the **pgvector** open-source extension, you can use Neon as a vector database for storing and querying embeddings. This allows you to Postgres as your vector store, eliminating the need for data migration or third-party solutions.

## Neon for AI Agents

Neon supports Postgres for AI agents with the following interfaces:

- **@neondatabase/toolkit** — a terse client that lets you spin up a Postgres database in seconds and run SQL queries. It includes both the [Neon TypeScript SDK](/docs/reference/typescript-sdk) and the [Neon Serverless Driver](https://github.com/neondatabase/serverless), making it an perfect choice for AI agents that need to quickly set up an SQL database. [Learn more](/docs/reference/neondatabase-toolkit).
- **Neon Model Context Protocol (MCP) server** — enables any MCP Client to interact with Neon’s API using natural language. AI agents can use Neon's MCP server to perform actions such as creating databases, running SQL queries, and managing database migrations. [Read the announcement](https://neon.tech/blog/let-claude-manage-your-neon-databases-our-mcp-server-is-here).

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/toolkit" description="A terse client that lets you spin up a Postgres database in seconds and run SQL queries" icon="github">@neondatabase/toolkit</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/mcp-server-neon" description="A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server for Neon that lets MCP Clients interact with Neon’s API using natural language" icon="github">Neon MCP Server</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## Neon for AI Apps

Neon's AI Starter Kit provides resources, starter apps, and examples to help get you started with Neon as your vector database.

<CTA title="Ship faster with Neon's AI Starter Kit" description="Sign up for Neon Postgres and jumpstart your AI application. Our starter apps and resources will help you get up and running." buttonText="Sign Up" buttonUrl="https://console.neon.tech/signup" />

The **Neon AI Starter Kit** includes:

- Neon Postgres with the latest version of the Postgres [pgvector](/docs/extensions/pgvector) extension for storing vector embeddings
- A variety of hackable, pre-built [AI starter apps](#ai-starter-apps):
  - AI chat
  - RAG chat
  - Semantic search
  - Hybrid search
  - Reverse image search
  - Chat with PDF
- A [vector search optimization guide](/docs/ai/ai-vector-search-optimization) for better AI application performance
- A [scaling guide](/docs/ai/ai-scale-with-neon) for scaling your app with Neon's Autoscaling and Read Replica features
- A collection of [AI apps built with Neon](#ai-apps-built-with-neon) that you can reference while building your own app

### AI basics

<DetailIconCards>
<a href="/docs/ai/ai-concepts" description="Learn how embeddings are used to build AI applications" icon="openai">AI concepts</a>

<a href="/docs/extensions/pgvector" description="Learn about the pgvector Postgres extension" icon="openai">The pgvector extension</a>

</DetailIconCards>

### AI starter apps

Hackable, fully-featured, pre-built [starter apps](#ai-starter-apps) to get you up and running.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/chatbot-nextjs" description="A Next.js AI chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">AI chatbot (OpenAI + LllamIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/chatbot-nextjs" description="A Next.js AI chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">AI chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/rag-nextjs" description="A Next.js RAG chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">RAG chatbot (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/rag-nextjs" description="A Next.js RAG chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">RAG chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/semantic-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Semantic Search chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Semantic search chatbot (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/semantic-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Semantic Search chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">Semantic search chatbot (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/hybrid-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Hybrid Search starter app built with OpenAI" icon="github">Hybrid search (OpenAI)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/reverse-image-search-nextjs" description="A Next.js Reverse Image Search Engine starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Reverse image search (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/llamaindex/chat-with-pdf-nextjs" description="A Next.js Chat with PDF chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LlamaIndex" icon="github">Chat with PDF (OpenAI + LlamaIndex)</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/examples/tree/main/ai/langchain/chat-with-pdf-nextjs" description="A Next.js Chat with PDF chatbot starter app built with OpenAI and LangChain" icon="github">Chat with PDF (OpenAI + LangChain)</a>

</DetailIconCards>

### AI integrations

Learn how to integrate Neon Postgres with LLMs and AI platforms.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="/docs/ai/langchain" description="Learn how to use LangChain with OpenAI to create AI applications faster" icon="langchain">LangChain (with OpenAI)</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/llamaindex" description="Learn how to use LlamaIndex with OpenAI to create AI applications faster" icon="llamaindex">LlamaIndex (with OpenAI)</a>

</DetailIconCards>

### Preparing your AI app for production

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="ai-vector-search-optimization" description="Optimize pgvector search for better application performance" icon="openai">Optimize pgvector search</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-scale-with-neon" description="Scale your AI app with Neon's Autoscaling and Read Replica features" icon="openai">Scale with Neon</a>

</DetailIconCards>

### AI apps built with Neon

AI applications built with Neon Postgres that you can reference as code examples or inspiration.

<Admonition type="tip" title="Feature your app here">
Share your AI app on our **#showcase** channel on [Discord](https://discord.gg/92vNTzKDGp) for consideration.
</Admonition>

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/ai-vector-db-per-tenant" description="Deploy an AI vector database per-tenant architecture with Neon" icon="github">AI vector database per tenant</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/guides/chatbot-astro-postgres-llamaindex" description="Build a RAG chatbot in an Astro application with LlamaIndex and Postgres" icon="openai">Guide: Build a RAG chatbot</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/guides/llamaindex-postgres-search-images" description="Using LlamaIndex with Postgres to Build your own Reverse Image Search Engine" icon="openai">Guide: Build a Reverse Image Search Engine</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/ask-neon" description="An Ask Neon AI-powered chatbot built with pgvector" icon="github">Ask Neon Chatbot</a>

<a href="https://vercel.com/templates/next.js/postgres-pgvector" description="Enable vector similarity search with Vercel Postgres powered by Neon" icon="github">Vercel Postgres pgvector Starter</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/yc-idea-matcher" description="YCombinator semantic search application" icon="github">YCombinator Semantic Search App</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/postgres-ai-playground" description="An AI-enabled SQL playground application for natural language queries" icon="github">Web-based AI SQL Playground</a>

<a href="https://github.com/neondatabase/neon-vector-search-openai-notebooks" description="Jupyter Notebook for vector search with Neon, pgvector, and OpenAI" icon="github">Jupyter Notebook for vector search with Neon</a>

<a href="https://github.com/ItzCrazyKns/Neon-Image-Search" description="Community: An image serch app built with Neon and Vertex AI" icon="github">Image search with Neon and Vertex AI</a>

<a href="https://github.com/mistralai/cookbook/blob/main/third_party/Neon/neon_text_to_sql.ipynb" description="A Text-to-SQL conversion app built with Mistral AI, Neon, and LangChain" icon="github">Text-to-SQL conversion with Mistral + LangChain</a>

<a href="https://neon.tech/blog/openais-gpt-store-is-live-create-and-publish-a-custom-postgres-gpt-expert" description="Blog + repo: Create and publish a custom Postgres GPT Expert using OpenAI's GPT" icon="openai">Postgres GPT Expert</a>

</DetailIconCards>

## AI tools

Learn about popular AI tools and how to use them with Neon Postgres.

<DetailIconCards>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-google-colab" description="A cloud-based environment to write and execute Python code, perfect for machine learning and data science tasks" icon="openai">Google Colab</a>

<a href="/docs/ai/ai-azure-notebooks" description="A cloud-based Jupyter notebook service integrated with Azure Data Studio for creating, running, and sharing notebooks" icon="openai">Azure Data Studio Notebooks</a>

</DetailIconCards>
